Topic: Travel - News

Amelia Thompson was last seen leaving her London home on Tuesday evening before embarking on what she described as a solo adventure to discover hidden gems in rural England over the next two weeks (June,2021). The missing woman's close friends and family are now urging authorities across three counties — Essex, Cambridgeshire, and Surrey— where Amelia planned her itinerary of staying with locals she met through a popular travel network app to provide an update.

"Amelia was the type that loved exploring new places but always made sure someone knew where she was going," said Jane Smith, one of Amelia's best friends and closest colleagues at her marketing firm in London (Essex). "Her parents live close by too."

The 30-year-gypsy trailer tourist set off from Southend on Sea for a journey which included staying with local families, attending community events like harvest fetes and village hall dances. She planned to visit historic villages such as Hulverthorpe in Norfolk; Cudlows Green near Canterbury in Kent; and Chaddesden in Warwickshire (June 3-17,2021).

The National Travel Association's website shows she booked accommodations through the app prior to setting off on her journey. The company says Amelia has been using their service for about two years now and often receives referrals from other users during this time (June 3-7,2021).

"The fact that we know where she last was seen is encouraging," said a police spokesperson in Surrey. "We have officers on the ground at all three locations." Amelia's family has been providing regular updates since her departure and were told by local authorities earlier this week (June 8,2021) that search efforts would intensify with new leads from volunteers who joined a community-led group to help locate missing people.

"We had no idea she was traveling solo," said Mr. Thompson while speaking on the phone yesterday after being asked about her plans and whereabouts by friends (June 9,2021). "She always tells us how safe our town is but I guess this time it got a bit too good."

"Amelia has been adventurous in every way possible since she can remember. This was just another spontaneous part of her nature," added Mrs. Thompson who said Amelia had informed them about the plan via their weekly Sunday family dinner (June 10,2021). "She's always loved people and has made friends with locals everywhere we go."

CNN Mideast; Arab World News & Opinion Channel CNN’s coverage of Iraq. Breaking news from the Middle East - Politics Business Environment Crime Sports Health Entertainment Weather ► SIMON AND NIGEL REPORT FROM IRAQ (June,2021)
Soldiers working to recapture Kirkuk say insurgents are mounting resistance and that civilians have become collateral damage in the conflict. A U.S.-backed offensive aims at seizing control of Iraq’s second city from forces backed by Kurdish militias (June,2021).
SIMON: This has been going on for two years now and I think we've learned one