Topic: US - Crime + Justice

A gunman opened fire inside a New York federal courthouse yesterday morning in what witnesses say is one of the most shocking incidents to occur on US soil within decades. The shooter took aim at court personnel with his weapon around midday when they were attending an important trial for several high-profile suspects, according to multiple sources close to law enforcement authorities handling the case.


No casualties have been reported as a result of this heinous act; however, it has left many citizens and officials deeply shaken across America's busiest city – New York City (NYC). The Federal Bureau of Investigation is currently investigating what could be an inside job or potential radicalization issue within the courthouse.


"This attack disrupts not only our immediate justice system but also sends a ripple effect throughout American society," said Commissioner James O'Neill, NYPD chief from his office in Lower Manhattan where he has since been taking command of security measures for federal buildings across the city. 


In an exclusive interview with CNN Newsroom yesterday evening, witness Amelia Turner described seeing a man carrying what looked like an AK-47 entering one of the courthouse’s wings at about noon and then heard gunshots shortly afterward that echoed through hallways lined by judges' chambner. “It was terrifying; I just wanted everyone to get down, but it seemed as though people froze in fear before finally complying,” Turner recalled saying during the incident which lasted an estimated fifteen minutes until authorities could apprehend a suspect at 12:45 PM local time (EDT).


Sheriff Mark Thompson has since released his statement about how law enforcement responded rapidly to neutralize what he warns is "an alarming breach of peace within our nation's highest court." The FBI, in conjunction with NYPD tactical units and armed civilian security guards have been present on-site while additional federal forces are being deployed temporarily.


"We understand that the courthouse was not just a building but also served as an emblem of justice where countless cases brought closure to victims seeking reparation," said Thompson, adding he hopes this incident won't "erode public faith in our legal system." Experts say while unprecedented in modern US history – considering similar occurrences are usually related abroad or within the military sector– they underscore an urgent need for a comprehensive review of security protocols across federal institutions nationwide.


CNN will continue to provide updates as more information becomes available on this distressing situation; meanwhile, families mourning their loved ones have found solace in each other’s company while sharing stories and commiserating over cups coffee or tea during a somber vigil organized by local residents late last night at the steps of City Hall.


As authorities investigate this tragedy that unfolded mere hours after yesterday's successful completion of high-profile trials involving several drug cartels, community members have started expressing their outrage against such violence through various forms including protest rallies and petitions demanding accountability from those involved in the criminal justice system itself.