Topic: World - Europe

In a dramatic rescue effort in Greece on Sunday morning, three miners who were trapped beneath Mount St. Paulus for nearly two weeks have been successfully brought to safety by the Hellenic Orpheus Mining Company workers and emergency services personnel after being located at an altitude of over 2,000 meters above sea level in a remote part of Crete' enduring unprecedented conditions while trapped.

"The weather was brutal with snowstorms on the way," said Andreas Stavros, spokesman for Hellenic Orpheus Mining Company that had deployed all its staff to aid in the search and rescue operation overseen by Greek authorities. "It's a relief nobody lost their lives during this ordeal."

The three miners - two experienced workers named Kostas Georgiou, 45 from Heraklion on Crete’s northwest coast who was paired with the other male worker in his late twenties; and Maria Koutsouridaki, a female colleague of their age born near Chania – got trapped due to heavy rain that triggered an unexpected rockfall inside one of Orpheus Mining Company's underground tunnels.

Greek authorities said the three were found alive on Sunday evening after emergency crews searched for them amidst treacherous conditions, including sub-zero temperatures and deep snow cover due to a late November blizzard that blanketed Greece in white overnight last weekend causing travel disruptions throughout most of southern Europe.

“The three workers were located on Sunday at around 4 p.m.,” said Dimitris Theofanous, Minister for Mining and Energy Affairs who led the coordination effort alongside other emergency response units including firefighters from ELAS in Heraklion region of southeastern Crete where Orpheus operates several open-pit mines along with its underground mining operations.

"These men displayed extraordinary courage while trapped and that was a huge factor helping us locate them,” said Theofanous during an evening press conference at the local community hall in Heraklion following Monday's successful extraction of the three workers from their makeshift shelters after 24 hours inside with little to no food supplies once they were discovered by rescue teams.

The initial blast that propelled them into seclusion had occurred about two weeks prior when water levels unexpectedly rose within an unused section of tunnel where Kostas and Maria worked together on November 18th but failed miserably due to lacking safety equipment such as hard hats which was not required at the time because no one would have thought they'd need it while working in these caverns.

“I never imagined this could happen,” recounted Kostas, who had just started his first day after completing a night shift on November 18th with Maria and hadn’t expected to work overtime or encounter such hazards within the tunnel system that has been in operation since as early back at least World War II. "I thought it was safe because we always checked all equipment before entering each section."

Kostas continued, “When I heard a loud bang around 7 p.m., Maria and me got startled which threw us off balance but luckily nothing serious happened until the water started rushing in from multiple areas near where she was standing at that moment.” The pair immediately tried to stop it using their bare hands then realized they needed help