Topic: Travel - Destinations

EU Commissioner Thierry Breton on Wednesday expressed his disappointment with UAE visa policies for European citizens, which have led to a decline in the number of Europeans visiting Dubai over fears that they would be barred from entry upon arrival. During an EU meeting taking place today at 3pm GMT in Brussels, Commissioner Breton voiced his concerns regarding recent changes made by the United Arab Emirates government and urged a reconsideration of these policies to maintain strong travel links between Europe and Dubai. "Europe has always been one of our strategic partnerships," said Mr. Breton while speaking in front of EU ambassadors assembled at Brussels' European Union headquarters, home to the 28-nation bloc representing nearly half a billion people.

Dubai officials responded that visa policies had been revised based on security concerns and not targeting any particular nationality or region but maintain that these measures are necessary for ensnerous travel experiences between Dubai, home to the Emirates airline, Abu Dhabi – capital of United Arabic-Emirates (UAE) nation.

"The visa procedures have been revised because we wanted our visitors to feel comfortable and safe during their stay," said Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Mansoori, Chairman of Dubai Tourism Company in an interview today with AFP correspondent Khaled El-Khidr. "We understand the frustrations that some Europeans have voiced over these new policies but we assure them it is not our intention to discourage tourists from visiting."

The revised policy came into effect on January 1, which has led many European countries – such as Spain and Greece - with a significant number of seasonal workers in the UAE or who send remittances home via Gulf nationals. EU Ambassadors across the world have been receiving numerous complaints from travelers regarding their denied entry into Dubai upon arrival while being issued short-stay visas prior to departure for trips, as previously practiced by millions of Europeans annually over summer seasons and during major cultural events such as Eurovision Song Contest which takes place every year in the UAE capital.

The EU has lodged a formal complaint with its Gulf partners about recent changes but hopes that this matter can be resolved diplomatically before it escalates into serious issues for relations between Europeans and their travel experiences to Dubai as an international tourism hub, where nearly 19 million visitors arrive annually.

"Europe is a very important market for the UAE when considering global business," said Mr Al Mansoori during his interview yesterday on Sky News Arabia with commentator Abdulrahman al-Shamisi, adding that he understands EU ambassadors' frustrations and hopes they will continue to visit Dubai as usual.

Some European officials had expressed worries about the policy changes in early January when travelers were denied entry upon arrival despite holding valid visas for short stays prior to departure - a practice which is widely accepted by airlines, border patrols, local law enforcement and tourist agencies worldwide as normal business conduct.

Many who expressed concerns over these developments include French ambassador Pierre Andre Gattolin in Riyadh on January 3rd, the same day EU foreign minister Josep Borrell voiced his similar worries during a video conference with Saudi Arabia Foreign Minister Faisal