Topic: US - Crime + Justice

In a shocking incident that has prompted nationwide discussions on gun control and security measures at public institutions, an armed intruder was foiled during yesterday's attempted heist inside the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in Manhattan. The suspect opened fire with what officials are describing as a semi-automatic handgun around 2 pdeempm, according to eyewitnesses and law enforcement reports released today by major news outlets including CNN and DailyMail.

According to the initial statements from New York Police Department (NYPD) authorities on Wednesday morning, an armed suspect forced his way into a restricted area of 12 Fulton St., Manhattan's financial heartbeat where millions in currency change hands daily. The intruder was stopped just as he attempted to steal what officials are describing—a cache worth upwards of $10 million from the secure vault, police said after seizing his semi-automatic weapon during a tense standoff with NYPD hostage negotiators and tactical commanders around 3 p.m., New York time yesterday evening.

Detective James O'Connor led the undercover negotiation team from NYC’s Crime Stoppers division, as they quietly approached suspect Robert Thompson in a secluded alleyway adjacent to Federal Reserve Bank of Manhattan headquarters before entering an on-site command post last seen near 8 Fulton St., where hostages were taken.

"Robert appeared agitated and was attempting to access what he believed would be the safest entry point into this secure facility," Detective O'Connor, who earned a Master of Criminal Justice degree from John Jay College in New York City two years ago before joining NYC Crime Stoppers division earlier today.

"Our priority has been to ensure no one gets hurt and we managed that successfully." - Captain Linda Rodriguez-Tran, Commanding Officer at the Federal Reserve Bank of Manhattan's security operation center. (Read More Here)

The intruder—who authorities are still trying to identify but is presumed a local resident known for his history with law enforcement in Queens and Brooklyn neighborhoods back when he was employed as an armorer during high-profile escapes from maximum-security prisons, according to FBI intelligence gathered on Thompson.

Shooting exchanges between the suspect and negotiators ensued just after 2 pdeempm yesterday evening; they were reportedly heard by several nearby employees—and even those working in different parts of town with bank access cards or ATM machines as a result, said NYPD spokesman Michael Smith.

"This was an individual determined to gain unauthorized entry into the vault and attempt what he believed would be an easy score," Mr. Thompson stated while being interviewed at city police headquarters today in front of media that descended on New York City after reports began circulating online yesterday evening, with a similar event unfolding earlier this week inside one other Federal Reserve Bank building here (Read More Here).

"These sorts of incidents are extremely rare and highly sensitive due to the nature of assets involved. We take them very seriously," said Captain Linda Rodriguez-Tran at Manhattan's Finan01 Security Operation Center, where hostages remained in custody after initial talks yesterday afternoon with Thompson ended by 4:30pm EST; he was later apprehended and led away from the scene on a police stretcher inside an ambulance