Topic: Sports - College Football

Duke University quarterback Michael Johnson threw for a school-record five touchdown passes in today's college football game against UNC Charlotte at Cameron Indoor Stadium on Friday night, September 21st. With just over two minutes left and Duke leading by three scores with only seven seconds to go, the Blue Devils turned it into a miracle win after starting behind their opponent’semasked record of 34-0 in four years prior.

"The energy from our fans was electric," said Johnson about his performance against UNC Charlotte's defense that had been ranked among the nation's best by several major media outlets, including CBS Sportsline and Fox Sports Networks. "I knew we could do it."

In a 58-34 upset victory for Duke in what was one of college football's most anticipated games since Texas A&M defeated Penn State at Kyle Field on November 10, 2016 by six scores last year when the Devils made their biggest comeback against Clemson University. In fact this season alone there have been three other upsets that defied odds according to ESPN College Football Wire and Sports Illustrated writer Tom Lopez who has covered more than 30 years of college sports for both publications: Baylor defeated Oklahoma State (47-28) on October 1st; Georgia Tech won against Appalachian State University at Bobby Dodd Stadium in Atlanta, GA with a score of 55–6 after being down by two touchdowns earlier during SEC Championship Game last December. And finally Troy defeated Louisiana-Lafayette (Troy beat LSU'79 final record holder against an undefeated national champion).

As for Johnson, he has become the first Duke quarterback since Mark Brunell in 2004 to throw five touchdown passes while leading his team into victory over a top ten opponent. In fact as of now only six other NCAA Division I FBS schools have accomplished this feat including Clemson University with Brooks Withers, Michigan State with Drew Scheil and Texas Tech led by Ryan Finley in 2008 to name but three players who are on the list:

"He's a great player. It was his performance tonight that really showed what Duke has all along," said head coach Jim Morris when asked about Johnson during halftime after he had thrown four touchdown passes with only five minutes remaining in third quarter and UNC Charlotte trailing by seven points at the time but still within reach according to Cameron Indoor Stadium's scoreboard as it read 31-24.

"He has a rare gift, I have no doubt about that," added assistant coach Greg Smith who had seen Johnson grow into one of college football best quarterback prospects during his recruiting process while attending the University Of Texas A&M where he played alongside Brandon Darnell before transferring to Duke.

With only seven seconds left, and UNC Charlotte still trailing by four points after taking an early lead themselves at 31-27 but unable maintain any momentum since then as Johnson capped off his spectacs with a go-ahead TD pass for the final score of the night: Duke University Blue Devils - NC Charlotte Panthers, 58–34.

"This win will be remembered throughout our history and legacy," stated Morris after celebrating their victory lap following game where they took on some tough competition