Topic: Sports - Pro Football

NEW YORK CITY – The New York Jets and Miami Dolphins are set to square off in a pivotal AFC East showdown on Saturday night at MetLife Stadium, with the winner taking an early lead as they face each other for the first time since Week 5. This high-stakes game comes after both teams finished last season ranked ninth and dropped out of playoff contention due to injuries that hampered their regular seasons in September and October respectively; a loss against Miami on Saturday night could see New York finish below .500 for the first time since 2014.

"It's always tough going into MetLife with my boys, but we know they can handle anything," said Jets head coach Robert Saleen in his pregame press conference this morning before detailing how he sees things changing next week when Jacksonville visits for Week 9 against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.

Despite a disheartening performance on Monday night that saw them get swept out of wildcard contention by New England in a matter of minutes, both teams have since rallied together to recover from early season losses and are now ready for what they believe will be another must-win game. And although it's far too soon tell which team is better suited than the other coming into Saturday night matchup at MetLife Stadium with 10/23, here’s everything you need to know before kickoff:

Jets vs Dolphins Overview
The Jets have lost four consecutive games following a five-game win streak from early November all while playing without their star quarterback Mark Sanchez; the latter was inactive during Thursday night's Week 8 matchup as well. Meanwhile, Miami has been dealing with several injuries that kept starting receiver Brian Hartline sidelined for most of last month and saw wideout Jarvis Landry out due to offseason surgery on his right ankle which is expected back in shape ahead of this weekend's clash at MetLife Stadium.

"I thought the Dolphins looked strong, especially their running game," said former Jets quarterback Chad Pennington after watching Miami practice yesterday morning as he joins Bill Belichick on CBS Sports Network to break down an AFC East-centric showdown when New England hosts Baltimore this weekend. "But it's never easy facing Tom Brady and the Patriots, so I’ll stay tuned."

According to Pro Football Reference: Injury Report for Week 8 – Sanchez has undergone surgery on his right shoulder that will keep him sidelined through at least week seven of the regular season. Hartline is expected back from an undisclosed injury after missing last Thursday against Buffalo and this Wednesday’s game with Kansas City; Landry remains out due to post-season physical recovery but should be able resume full practice workouts next Tuesday in preparation for Week 9.

A look at the matchups ahead of kickoff on Saturday: AJ McCarron vs Ryan Fitzpatrick – New York has had issues finding success when facing rookie quarterbacks, going just a combined four–four against Bradford and Eli Manning during their time together in Jacksonville; but it’ll be tougher this weekend as neither Sanchez nor Fitzmagic can lead the Jets downfield at MetLife Stadium come Saturday night. That said – both backers seem