Topic: Sports - College Football

A massive sellout crowd witnessed an incredible comeback as No. 15 Oklahoma State University clinched victory in a heart-pounding game against archrival Texas Tech at the Jay-Zunser athletic complex on Saturday, November 2nd. After being down by double digits early into the fourth quarter, Oklahoma Sooners managed to turn it around and win with just over two minutes left, thanks primarily to senior linebacker Jacob Sawyer's spectacral interception return for a touchdown that had fans at Jay-Zunser roaring.

Jacob grew up in Stillwater where he played both football and basketball before deciding on the gridiron after his high school coach told him, "The field is your canvas." He said of Saturday's victory: “Seeing my teammates celebrate with me was surreal - we’ve trained hard for this season. And when I got that call about scoring in our comeback game? It made all the sweat worth it.”

A crowd estimated at 60,000 people turned out to see Oklahoma Sooners play their first away trip of the fall since last November's Big 12 Championship victory over Kansas State. Texas Tech had held a lead through three quarters that was nevertheless challenged by OSU in an intense battle for dominance on both sides of the ball, according to ESPN reporter James Smithson who called from TCU campus about one hour into the game: "It's been nothing short of spectacular here. The energy levels have hit all-time high."

With 5 minutes and 37 seconds remaining in regulation time, OSU senior linebacker Jacob Sawyer intercepted a pass from Texas Tech’s quarterback Dylan Frye that he then returned for an impressive 49 yards to the endzone. The touchdown cut their deficit down by eight points and gave Oklahoma State hope of winning this game as they had never done before in history – going into overtime with two possessions left, Sawyer’s spectacular play was instrumental for his team that he said: "I just saw an opportunity to help my teammates. And I seized it.”

After a few unsuccessful drives by both teams at the start of Overtime (as is common in football), Texas Tech decided on going three-and-out and Oklahoma Sooners were given possession with 2 minutes, 36 seconds left to play when they got downs from the two yard line. As Sawyer said afterwards: “Our job as a team was always clear - never give up.”

On that crucial fourth attempt by OSU quarterback Chris Thompson at converting into touchdown with only about thirty yards between them and first, he threw an incompletions to wide receiver Tyler Grant before connecting successfully on the third try. With 1 minute left Sawyer was called offside during a subsequent play but when his teammates brought down Dylan Frye for second-and-ten with just over two minutes remaining Thompson quickly put them into good field position and he connected once again, this time to Tyler Grant who finished the game by scoring another touchdown on what was an incredible 54 yards pass play. This gave Oklahoma State a lead of four points as they marched downfield for their final drive which ended with first-and-ten at midfield when Sawyer got called offside once again - this