Topic: World - China

Chinese authorities are taking unprecedented measures in Shanghai amid an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases overnight. The city reported a record number of daily new infections yesterday (June 20th), with more than 7,50 end up hospitalized. This spike is attributed to the spread of the Omicron variant within densely populated urban areas and poses significant challenges for Shanghai's existing healthcare infrastructure already strained from previous outbreak waves.

According to official data released today by the National Health Commission (NHC), 289 new cases were detected in metropolitan Shanghai as of mid-afternoon, with a positivity rate exceeding 30%. The city's daily caseload has surged past previous peaks seen during earlier waves.

"Shanghai is being hit harder by the Omicron variant than anywhere else right now," said Dr. Lee Mingwei, an epidemiologist at Shanghai Jiao Tong University who closely monitors local developments. "We are bracing ourselves for a challenging few weeks ahead."

Authorities in response have ramped up testing efforts and imposed stricter controls on public movement to curb the contagion's spread, with many businesses forced back into lockdown or moving their operations online as temporary measures. Shanghai government officials are currently working around-the-clock at hospitals providing extra beds for Covid patients in need of specialized care due to complications from existing conditions like diabetes and high blood pressure – a first time occurrence since the beginning of pandemic emergency response protocols back in 2020.

"It is not only about fighting against COVID-19 anymore, but also ensuring timely medical treatment for those who develop complications," said Huang Jianchun, Shanghai's acting Mayor and current director general of the City Epidemic Prevention Steering Committee during a press conference. "Our priority is to protect all lives."

Meanwhile, experts warn that this might only be the beginning as China struggles with its zero-tolerance approach towards COVID containment policies amid an evolving landscape in public health strategy globally where more flexible approaches are being adopted elsewhere around Asia. 

"It's clear from our observations and studies here at Peking University that Omicron spreads exponentially faster than Delta, but it also typically results in less severe illness," explained Professor Liu Wei of the School of Public Health while discussing a recent analysis on this very issue. "But with Shanghai's sheer population density and tight living quarters – we may see more hospitalizations among vulnerable populations."

CNN Newsource has reached out to various health authorities for comments but received no immediate reply as Chinese officials maintain silence over their handling of the crisis - a notable difference from transparency standards practiced in other parts of world. The Shanghai Municipal Health Commission says its top priority is "ensuring public safety, protecting people's lives and property," while continuously monitoring developments within hospitals treating Covid-19 patients with complications such as myocarditis or blood clots – conditions not common in the early phases of an outbreak.

Experts are urging citizens to continue following precautionary measures like wearing masks, using hand sanitizer and maintaining social distance even if their local area has seen relatively lower levels compared to