Topic: Travel - Lodging and Hotels

A recent outbreak of bedbug infestations has left many tourists in hot water at a once-beloved resort town on the West Coast as they seek alternative accommodation options while dealing with an itchy situation and sleepless nights, reports CNN Business. Since late last month when several guests reported bugs crawling into their rooms here to Los Angeles Lakeside Resort, officials have struggled in vain to control what has been called the worst infestation of bedbugs on record at a U.S.-based hotel chain with more than 30 properties across the nation.

"Bedbugs seem omnipresent these days," says local resident Emma Johnson as she recalls her own brushes with pests in years past, but adds that "I never thought I'd return to this place and face them again." The resort town of 35,00 endures a constant influx of summer tourists drawn by the lure of beautiful beaches.

For now at least, those who arrived before or during bedbugs have been found will likely need to seek lodging elsewhere as many hotels in and around Los Angeles Lakeside are refusing entry until further notice for fear they could unwittingly transport bugs back home with them after traveling across states. Some guests say that being turned away was the last straw, saying resorts should take better care of their establishments to avoid reputational harm among millions who visit annually.

"The bedbug issue has been a recurring headache," says CEO Robert Flynn as he confirms reports from hotel staff and guests alike about the bugs' persistence despite aggressive pest control efforts, "It feels like an endless battle." The source for this story is anonymous to ensure guest privacy.

Since bedbugs are so difficult to detect without expert help due to their small size (1 mm long) and camouflaging capabilities that allow them to blend into the woodwork around a hotel room, some guests say they were shocked by discoveries while staying at Los Angeles Lakeside Resort.

"I saw my first bedbug crawling on me just as I was about to fall asleep," says tourist Sarah Rodriguez who booked rooms here in early June before learning of the outbreak but now faces costs for alternative lodging along with additional expenses she did not plan, "It's embarrassing and unnerving."

Experts say that bedbug infestations are a growing problem nationwide because hotels often have multiple guest turnover rates each night coupled with inexpensive room prices. In the past three years alone there has been an estimated $50 billion hit to U.S. hotel revenues due to these unwelcome guests, according to The National Pest Management Association and Travel Weekly reports; however they warn that bedbugs can easily move from one guest's room into another if left unchecked because of their nocturnal habits which involves them feeding on human blood before hiding during the day in mattresses seams, behind baseboards or even within crevices around window and door casings.

"Hotels have always been a risky place for these bugs to hide," says entomologist Dr Mary Simmons as she explains their ability travel with guests between hotels across states if not detected immediately upon arrival through thorough inspection, "If one room has them then it's likely others do too."

While some may be incl