Topic: Health - Relationships

In a recent turn of events within local healthcare circles in Boston, experts are urging couples to reconsider their birth plans as they navigate relationship issues exacerbated by the pandemic (2/15/2023). A study published last month found that nearly 40% of expectant parents had postponed or cancelled a planned natural childbirth due to heightened stress and strained communication within their relationships.


Dr. Elizabeth Nguyen, lead author of the research conducted by Boston University's School of Public Health said, "The pandemic has amplified relationship tensions among couples which we see is negatively impacting birth plans." She added that these situations have led to a surge in requests for alternative birthing methods and postnatal support.


"It goes beyond just the physical aspect now," shared Maria Lopez, who recently had her second child after initially planning an at-home water birth during lockdowns. "Emotionally, I am not ready to have a baby in this environment." 


Boston health officials are addressing these concerns by ramping up accessibility of virtual prenatal care and counseling services for couples experiencing relationship difficulties that may affect childbirth plans (2/15/2023). The city's Health Department announced new initiatives on Tuesday, aiming to provide specialized support within the next three months.


"We recognize these are challenging times and want couples feeling stressed about their relationship dynamics during pregnancy," said Dr. James Carter, director of maternal-child services at Boston General Hospital (2/15/2023). He went on to emphasize the need for comprehensive care that addresses both physical health and emotional wellbeing before delivery.


Local doulas have also expressed an increased demand in their work as expectant parents seek non-medical support alongside professional medical advice (2/15/2023). "It's about creating a calming atmosphere for the whole family," says Emily Tran, who has been working with couples on birth plans since 2018.


As Boston leads by example in offering holistic maternity care amidst relationship strains caused by the pandemic, other cities are considering similar programs to support parents during this time (2/15/2023). Experts agree that acknowledging and addressing these psychosocial factors can lead to healthier pregnancies and birth experiences for all involved.