Topic: Business - Investing

EUROPEAN M&A Spiked in July as Pandemic Stimulus Fuels Deals Across Sectors – Reuters Data  

(August 15) - Business investment across Europe has seen a notable increase, particularly within the mergers and acquisitions (M&A) sector. According to preliminary data from financial analytics firm Refinitiv, cross-border M&A activity in July was up by over 40% compared to June – with deals valued at $127 billion recorded during that month alone, notwithdiscounting currency fluctuations and inflation.

Experts believe the surge stems from governments worldwide injecting massive stimulus funds into economies as a way to bolster market confidence amidst ongoing pandemic uncertainty – which in turn has encouraged corporate takeovers, particularly within industries hit hardest by COVID-19 such as airlines and retail.

"The uptick is reflective of the broader investment trends we've seen across Europe," said Dr. Helena Schultz, a professor at Paris School of Business who has studied market responses to crises for over two decades. "Investors are looking toward mergers as an opportunity not just out of necessity but also due to the influx of capital available."

Major deals were reported in various sectors: In energy, Italian power company Enel struck a $12 billion deal with French firm EDF; German retailer Metro AG acquired British discounter Bookmakers for £3.5 billion (~$4.6 billion); and Spanish conglomerate Repsol pursued the takeover of oil giant Total's 70% stake in Argentina’s largest crude producer YPF – a move that some experts speculate might signal strategic shifts as energy companies grapple with transitioning to renewable sources.

While economists note these acquisitions could be beneficial for consolidating industries weakened by the pandemic, they caution investors remain wary of over-speculation due to uncertainty surrounding future economic scenarios and how businesses adapt moving forward – especially those in sectors heavily impacted like aviation.

"Airlines are taking these deals seriously but with a dose of skepticism," said David Benson, an investment analyst at London-based financial advisory firm Capital Insights. "While the stimulus package may provide some much needed liquidity to airlines currently struggling amid reduced passenger numbers and travel bans imposed by governments due to COVID cases – any return on those funds is not guaranteed."

Many businesses involved in these deals see them as an opportunity for growth, despite potential risks. Airline CEO Franco Moretti sees the French-Italian merger deal with EDF particularly promising: "We believe our combined strengths will help us navigate this crisis much more effectively – and capitalize on opportunities that may arise post pandemic."

The European Central Bank (ECB) has signaled its continued commitment to injecting stimulus into the economy in order to support growth amidst global uncertainty. In a statement released last month, ECB President Christine Lagarde noted: "Our actions are designed not just for stability now but also as measures that will help Europe recover and grow."

As economists remain divided on how businesses can best adapt post pandemic – while governments continue to provide