Topic: Science - Space

NASA Launches Inspection Mission to Study Unidentified Bright Object Orbiting Earth Since Last Week

By Alex Rivera-Smith, Space Correspondent @AlexRiverasSpace and CNN Science Reporter on Tuesday, March 15th. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has launched an unmanned probe to investigate a mysterious bright object that started orbiting Earth over one week ago but remains elusive in its true nature.

"It's definitely not something we had on our radar," said NASA spokespener Diana Rodriguez, referring to the discovery of this peculiar satellite-like phenomenon which was first noticed by amateur astronomer and avid sky watcher David Gorman from his backyard observatory in Huntsville, Alabama last Monday.

Gregory Thompson, a seasoned astrophysicist working at NASA's Deep Space Network (DSN) explained the significance of this object: "To date we have no concrete explanation for its origin or composition but given that it hasn’t been identified as an aircraft reflection or any known celestial body yet, I would say there is something to investigate here."

The bright flashing object has a diameter about 5 times larger than the International Space Station (ISS) and can be spotted without assistance in most parts of Earth. Its consistent luminescence puzzles scientists who are trying their best not only with advanced telescopes, but also computer simulations to unravel this enigma – for now it continues its mysterious voyage around our planet undisturbed every 93 minutes as per current tracking data from the European Space Agency's (ESA) Astrophysics Division.

NASA plans a series of investigations using both existing ground-based and space telescopes to monitor this object more closely over coming weeks while attempting unprecedented cooperation with international counterparts for additional observations in case it turns out not an alien craft after all but something humanity might stumble upon.

Dr. Jennifer Martin, a professor at Harvard University who has worked on numerous extraterrestrial phenomena said: "It is critical that we apply the scientific method to assess this unknown object and understand its potential effects or implications if it proves not just an unidentified satellite but something more extraordinary." The world anxiously watches what could be a major revelation in our quest for understanding cosmic mysteries.

Alex Rivera-Smith is CNN's Space Correspondent based out of Houston, Texas