Topic: Sports - Baseball

In a stunning upset at last night's National League Championship Series game between Atlanta Braves and Los Angeles Dodgers, Mookie Betts of the Dodgers hit his seventh home run in as many games to seal the victory for LA with just two outs remaining. The crowd roared when he knocked a towering ball into right field at Truist Park, Georgia on October 1st, propelling him and Los Angeles ahead one game before they face off against their NL West division rival in Tuesday's final series clash for the championship title.

Baseball experts weigh in on Betts’ remarkable performance this postseason: "It has been an extraordinary run by Mookie Betts, but I think it speaks more to his talent and determination than anything else," said Derek Jeter, a retired professional shortstop who played for the New York Yankees from 2003-14.

Betts hit home runs in back-to-back nightcap postseason games twice before: once with Los Angeles’ championship team — known as “The Show” or The Big League Ball Club (BBLC)— and again after they had parted ways on the final day of his contract; this time he was playing for New York Mets, where Betts helped them to a World Series berth.

This latest home run comes amid speculation that Los Angeles could land Betts in free agency next year with no extension beyond 2021 as expected. General manager Beane has since released: "We are aware of the ongoing discussions regarding Mookie's future, but we will not comment further at this time," said a representative for Braves when asked about their plans to re-sign Betts after he left LA last season due to salary cap concerns.

It remains unclear if Atlanta could benefit from acquiring the superstar outfielder; however with two more home runs, one in each of his next three regular games before a decisive seventh game on October 14th at Truist Park between Los Angeles and Braves for what will likely be the best baseball postseason matchup ever produced by any sport to date.

"If Betts plays as well or better than he did last season, I think Atlanta could give us a run," said an optimistic Dodgers fan who was in attendance at Truist Park on October 1st and watched the entire game with bets of his own riding along with him. "It’ll be great to see how things develop now that we're back here after this year, but regardless, Betts has been a star player for us over the years."

As teams from both leagues prepare for an intense battle at home on October 14th and as experts predict possible postseason records being broken in Tuesday’s game between Los Angeles and Atlanta by players like Betts or others, one thing is certain: no matter who wins the championship series next weekend – it'll be a memorable time for baseball fans to witness.