Topic: Sports - Hockey

In a surprising turn of events at last night's National Hockey League game between Boston Bruins and Montreal Canadiens in Madison Square Garden, Toronto-born defenseman Eric Bell suffered an apparent fracture to his right wrist following a stick check by the Canadiens. The incident occurred during the third period when two players on opposing teams squared off for control of possession over the puck at center ice.

Bell, who is normally known more for his consistent performance than flashy plays in front of netmates and defensive prowess against top competition, was reportedly doing well until he found himself cornered by Canadiens forward Maxime Daigneault during a scramble over the puck between Bell's teammate Brooks Orpik and Canadian winger Jonathan Drouin.

In an instant replay review of the play that unfolded in front of thousands, Bruins goalie Cam Talbot attempted to block what appeared at first glance to be nothing more than a standard check on Daigneault; however, as Bell fell with his hands up and arms spread for protection after being grabbed by Drouin's powerful right arm. The tough-as-nails defenseman landed awkwardly, visibly wincing in pain while clutching at the affected area of his wrist before crumpling to the ice on a knee and elbow beside him.

Bell was quickly helped off the rink by paramedics who determined he needed X-rays done immediately – which revealed multiple small fractures that may require surgery, according to Bell's medical team speaking at press conference hours later yesterday afternoon in Boston with local hospital representatives. Dr. James McAlister from Massachusetts General Hospital said there is a "moderate risk" of permanent damage but added confidently:

"The injuries Eric has sustained are nothing new for us here, and he's handled everything quite well so far." 

With the season nearing its midpoint in March – this unexpected injury comes at an unfortunate time. Bell had a productive first half of his career with Bruins prior to signing on as depth during last summer’s free agency spree, which included pickups such as Zdeno Chara and Brad Marchand from Boston rivals, the Tampa Bay Lightning – but it's too early yet for Bell being a non-factor at this point in time.

His agent, Patricia O'Brien of HockeyAgents Inc., expressed concern over potential recovery period with respect to his contract as he works out rehab assignments under the watchful eye of both team physicians and medical staff from Boston University National Resource Center for Emergency Preparedness (BU-NREPP), where Bell’s training facility is located.

“His injury, though serious – it isn't uncommon in hockey but healing time will be key here,” O'Brien said at the press conference yesterday afternoon with a hopeful tone as she stated: "The most important thing for Eric right now has to focus on his rehabilitation plan. He and our medical team are already working diligently together back home, so I know he won’t let us down."

In Bell's case though the Bruins have a backup defenseman in Brooks Orpik ready for duty during recovery time – Montreal Canadiens coach Claude Julien spoke at yesterday afternoon press conference about next season and how it could be impacted by this injury. "Er