Topic: World - Africa

Economic crisis looms large across Sub-Saharan Africa as COVID-19'th wave hits hardest  
*By Amina Mohammed and Nia Roberts in Lagos, Nigeria; Addis Ababa Bureau, Ethiopia; Maputo Press Center, Mozambique - Tuesday 24 October.*  

**Lead: Economic turmoil grips Africa's heartland as COVID-19 surges again. A continent once hopeful now faces dire predictions and growing pessimism among the populace and global observers alike, especially in countries hardest hit by both economic sanctions and pandemic waves like Ethiopia (which is witnessing its own internal conflict)**

In a concerning development for sub-Saharan Africa as COVID-19 cases surge amid ongoing vaccine rollouts. The continent's fragile economies, already under pressure from global sanctions and the lingering effects of an oil price slump in 2014 coupled with recent waves of conflict such as those taking place in Ethiopia, are once again at risk despite significant international aid aimed to mitigate these impacts.

"The second wave is causing unprecedented havoc," said Dr. Aisha Bello, a public health expert based in Lagos, Nigeria who has been working on the COVID-19 front lines since last year's outbreak began. "Many people are returning to work after lockdown fearing for their livelihood but now they risk spreading it further."

In South Africa, which is experiencing one of its worst economic recessions in decades due partly to the pandemic and also internal political instability following a wave of mass protests against unemployment earlier this year. The country's economy has contracted by 6% for each quarter throughout 2021 with an expected contraction of another 4% next quarter, while many businesses remain shuttered due to lockdown restrictions imposed in June and the anticipation is that it may not fully recover until at least early 2023.

The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has called for more international support as they fear a "slow-burning crisis," which, if left unchecked could see up to half of sub-Saharan Africa fall into poverty by the end of next year. Their analysis predicts that 60 million people across West and Central African countries will slip back below the $1.90 per day extreme poverty line in late 2023, unless urgent action is taken to protect economies on which they rely heavily for food production while also addressing widespread corruption issues within these governments that have hindered effective pandemic response and economic relief measures thus far.

In Mozambique where the economy has been severely impacted by cyclone Idai earlier this year along with COVID-19, local officials are working to rebuild infrastructure as well manage a potential increase in cases due to people returning back into public life after several months of lockdowns imposed during previous waves.
"We have done all we can but more help from the international community will be needed," said Sofia Lungu, Mayor of Beira City who recently oversaw evacuation efforts following devastating floods caused by cyclone Idai in March this year that displaced over 60% of her city's population.

As