Topic: Health - Food

An accidental discovery has taken place in a small town near Oxford where scientists believe they have found an exceptionally nutritious and potentially life-changing superfood known as the "Oxford Berry." The berry, indigenous to this region of England, was unearthed by amateur forager Emma Clarke during her early morning walk last Thursday.


"I stumbled upon a field that I had never seen before," said Clarke who noticed the vibrant purple hue amidst green foliage near Wytham Woods, just outside Oxford city limits. "At first glance, it looked like something you'd find in fairy tales."


The local health food shop owner and a self-described “Berry enthusiast,” Thomas Hayes has been following Clarke’selive discovery closely. 

"I saw Emma with the berries on her way into town, I couldn't believe my eyes," said an excited Hayes. "If this holds true to our initial excitement and tests, we could be looking at a breakthrough."


Early testing conducted by Oxford University’s Department of Nutritional Sciences has identified the berry as containing unusually high levels of antioxidants, fiber, vitamins C and E. Notably also contains Omega-3 fatty acids which are typically found in fish oil but rarely in plant sources - a rarity that piqued scientists' interests greatly.

"It’s incredible," remarked Professor John Smythe from the department, "In over twenty years of studying nutritional science as an academic field, I have never witnessed such striking qualities come together within one single fruit." 

The berry has not yet been named; rumors range widely with names like 'Burpleberry' and ‘Oxford’s Golden Gem.’ The Oxford Berry is set to make its debut at next month's annual Health Food Expo in Birmingham, where scientists will present their findings along with live samples for tasting.

“We are excited about the potential of this discovery,” says Smythe firmly yet cautiously as he looks forward towards future studies and investigations that need to be done on safety concerns before widespread public consumption can even consider taking place."