Topic: Style - Beauty

A renowned fashion magazine in Milan announced a groundbrein-like decision on Friday to launch its first ever all female staff team for an exclusive project celebrating diversity and empowerment within the style industry (CNN Style, DailyMail). This unprecedented move comes as part of a larger initiative by the publication aimed at highlighting underrepresented voices in fashion. 

"The time is now to reflect our values authentically through action," said Alessandro Fiorelli, Editor-in-Chief of Vogue Italia, during an interview on his latest project called "Women Empowered." The full team consists solely of women who bring unique and different perspectives. Their first task is creating a feature issue focused entirely on female empowerment in style culture which they hope will encourage more diversity within the industry as well as give voice to those often left unheard or overshadowed by their male counterparts.

This decision has sparked excitement and anticipation amongst readers, both domestic and international who eagerly await Vogue Italia's groundbreaking project that promises not only style insights but also messages of self-confidence for all women regardless of age, race, or background (DailyMail Style). 

Among those excited about the new approach are female celebrities such as Italian supermodel Claudia Schiffer and award-winning director Sofia Coppola. "I think it's incredible to see an institution that has always been male dominated taking this step forward," said fashion icon Schilder who is set to attend a launch party at Vogue Italia on Saturday evening along with other prominent figures from the entertainment industry and business world alike (CNN Style). 

As for Coppola, she echoed similar sentiments saying "This move by Vogue not only brings attention back to women's fashion but also sends an empowering message about gender equality in today’s society." The project is expected to take two years and include interviews with inspiring female role models from various walks of life such as athletes, business moguls, artists, activists amongst others. 

“It takes a lot for me personally but I feel it's my responsibility towards the industry which has shaped much of who I am,” said Stefania Bianchi director and writer-in-residence at Vogue Italia’s new all female staff team (CNN DailyMail Style). They added that they hope this project will serve as a catalyst for change within fashion, empowering other young women to follow in their footsteps.

Fashion experts agree with the magazine's approach and have lauded Vogue Italia's groundbreaking decision (DailyMail CNN Style). "This is not just an editorial shift but a cultural one which will hopefully inspire more gender-balanced initiatives within fashion houses," says prominent British designer Stella McCartney. 

While many in the industry see this as positive, some critics argue that it's simply tokenism and lack transparency about selection process of the female team (CNN DailyMail Style). However, Vogue Italia has assured readers they will release details regarding how their new all-female staff came to be selected during an upcoming event in Milan where Fiorelli himself is expected make headlines. The inaugural issue with its empowering message and diverse female voices are set for a December 2024 launch, marking the magazine's commitment towards inclusivity as it embraces change