Topic: Sports - Olympics

In a stunning upset at last night's Olympic trials for track and field, Jamaican sprinter Usman Williams edged out American record holder Justin Gatlin by just one-hundredth of a second in the men' end to win his fifth consecutive national title. This victory catapulted Williams into London 2012 as he continues with hopes for gold medals and new records on world shores come August 5th, while reigning Olympic champion Gatlin contends with what could be a long road back after an unexpected defeat in this heartbreaker race.

Usman Williams has been training rigorously at the Texas A&M University Track facility near San Antonio since late November of last year when he set several records on his first day, including one for speed that earned him immediate attention from coaches and university administrators alike who saw a diamond in the rough.

"I knew I had something special," Williams said after breaking Gatlin's record with an astonishing 9-second dash to the finish line during yesterday's trials held at San Antonio Stadium, which hosted over two thousand spectators that cheered on fiercely for their own potential champion. "When Justin started his sprinting career back in '87 and I took up running more recently myself as a way of honoring my father who passed away last year from cancer-related complications – it felt like time was right."

Experts have weighed into the discussion regarding Williams' remarkable turnaround. Dr. Richard Carter, an exercise physiologist at Baylor College and Olympic Committee consultant says that "Usman has shown incredible discipline in his training regimen along with innate talent; there is no doubt about it." But perhaps even more telling was when he said himself: “There will be times where I want to quit during a race, but my mindset always tells me - finish strong.”

Meanwhile Justin Gatlin stood on the starting line and seemed nervous as ever despite being in perfect shape according to USA Track & Field officials. His coach Larry Richardson says that his client felt disappointed after yesterday's loss "but he knows this is an opportunity for growth." He adds, "Justin has been through so much since coming back into the sport at age 32; there’s no doubt about it – Usman just took him out by a whisker.”

With next weekend bringing international competitions between Europe and Asia that will see both athletes compete head-to-head, this has set up an interesting dynamic. Williams remains focused on his own goals while also acknowledging Gatlin's talent: "He is incredible in what he’s done throughout the years," said Usman after watching Justin win five consecutive Olympic gold medals before losing to him at these very trials last night – “it will be interesting how this changes our sport."

It may not come as a surprise that some athletes felt mixed emotions following yesterday's event. "Usman showed true grit today and deservedly won," said one of Usman Williams’ fellow competitors at Texas A&M, who wishes to remain anonymous due to concerns for privacy – “I know Justin is disappointed but I believe he will come back stronger.” However not everyone agrees with that sentiment.

Former Olympian sprinter Angela Carter commented on the day's events during a televised interview saying "Usman’s victory was nothing short of remarkable; it just goes to show – dedication