Topic: World - Americas

In a groundbredependent development in Guatemala City on Thursday morning, President Alejandro Giammattei announced plans for peace talks with former leftist rebels of the National Democratic Unification Party (PUD). The move comes amid growing tensions and fears that violence could erupt into full-blown conflict.

In a televised speech on Thursday morning, President Alejandro Giammattei said he had invited leaders from all sides to participate in the negotiations aimed at ending decades of civil unrest: "I extend an invitation for dialogue and reconciliation without any prejudices. I believe we can achieve a peaceful solution if everyone is willing to listen."

Amid rising fears that violence could erupt into full-blown conflict, President Alejandro Giammattei called on all parties in Guatemala City yesterday for talks aimed at ending decades of civil unrest. The invitation came as 12 more bodies were found with signs pointing to possible torture and political violence during the country's lengthy internal conflicts that have ended only recently with a landmark peace accord between former rebels and the government in December last year.

The President, who has been criticized by some for his handling of post-conflict Guatemala since taking office earlier this year, said he had invited leaders from all sides to participate in negotiations that would also seek ways forward on justice issues left unresolved after years of bloodshed and trauma. 

"Our aim is not only peace but lasting reconciliation between the past and present generations," Giammattei said during a televised address yesterday from his office in Guatemala City's National Palace, as quoted by local media reports here [link to imaginary source]. "We must acknowledge our painful history while building something better for future generations."

Local human rights activists have welcomed the move but warned that years of deep-seated distrust would make it difficult. They called on Giammattei and other negotiators involved in drafting any new agreements to prioritize justice issues, which remain unresolved decades after a bloody civil war ended with former rebels agreeing not only political power sharing but also the establishment of truth commissions that were supposed to deliver answers about atrocities committed during those years. 

"We cannot just put on our national unity song and dance," said Emma Rodriguez, who founded Maya Sisters Foundation after her sister disappeared in Guatemala City's infamous La Loma prison camp where thousands of suspected members or sympathizers were detained by government forces during the 36-year civil war. "We need to demand justice for survivors and their families."

Rodriguez added that Giammattei was in a delicate position with his mandate limited due to elections held last year amid high levels of corruption, poverty, gang violence, human rights abuses - including reports from Amnesty International alleging ongoing torture. 

Mean0wnly speaking about the invitation itself yesterday at an emergency cabinet meeting in Guatemala City attended by ministers and security officials, Giammattei said he hoped all parties would accept his offer to initiate peace talks: "We can make a real difference for our country. Let us take this opportunity together."

"But I'm aware that there are forces pushing back against recon