Topic: Sports - Hockey

Washington Capitals forward Tyson Barrett has been charged with assaulting NHL defenseman Nick Jensen during a game on Saturday night at Capital One Arena in Washington D.C., the National Hockey League (NHL) announced yesterday. The incident occurred just over an hour into the match, when officials could not calm tensions between players and ordered two five-minute stoppages that were unsuccessful before issuing full fighting penalties to Barrett (No 28; born May 14, 1990) and Jensen. The league stated it has suspended both for the remainder of this season without pay while investigations continue into what transpired in-game at RFK Stadium prior to full fighting penalties being assessed by officials following a scuffle on center ice involving Barrett, 28 (No 45; born May 14, 1990), who was then with the Washington Capitals and Jensen. NHL Deputy Commissioner Bill Daly said: “The safety of our players must always be at the forefront in all situations on-ice confrontations.”

Earlier this season after a game against Pittsburgh Penguins, which ended 3-1 to Caps following overtime where Jensen suffered an injury that sidelined him for several weeks. Daly said he hopes today's penalty "will serve as the ultimate deterrent." Barrett was playing in his first full season after recovering from offseason neck surgery and returned on Saturday night, while defenseman Nicklas Backstrom (No 78; born Oct. 10, 1985) missed a game last month due to the same condition but has played all this year without issue since having it fixed in December when he was traded from Anaheim Ducks at time of trade on March 23, two years prior.

"I've had my fair share of confrontations with players during my career," Barrett said while sitting alone under a tarp outside the arena after his game ended around midnight last night as he awaited news from management following yesterday’s suspension and continued investigation by the league office into what transpired Saturday evening in Washington D.C., which started when Capitals forward Taylor White hit Jensen with her skate, leading to an altercation on ice that grew loud enough for officials eventually having no choice but to order a fight between Barrett (capital) and Backstrom from Pittsburgh’s Nicklas Backstrom team who was in attendance at the time. “Honestly I've done my best not to respond emotionally,” White said while sitting next to her Capitals partner Tyson, speaking exclusively with Reuters prior as she waits for word on disciplinary action from management regarding Saturday’s incident involving herself and teammate Jensen. “I understand that what happened is unacceptable.”

Capitals coach Barry Trotz was asked about the penalties after Barrett arrived in a wheelchair outside of Capital One Arena with two officers accompanying him just before his game against Pittsburgh ended around 10pm last night. “It's obviously not what we wanted to see,” he said while speaking on an NHL post-game conference call which was later replayed by the league as Capitals and Caps fans waited for news following yesterday’s penalty that barred him from playing in Saturday matches moving forward due to this incident. “I've