Topic: World - Asia

A massive wildfire currently ravages through dense forests in northern Australia as thousands of firefigmediate rangers battle to contain its spread on a continent already experiencing unprecedented drought and heatwaves due to climate change, CNN reports. The blaze—which emerged two weeks ago near the remote township of Katherine along the border between New South Wales and Queensland states—has consumed nearly 240 square miles (617 sq km) so far as it expands at an alarming rate toward major populated areas, including Darwin.

Smoke from blaze blankets sky over Australia's north east town of Katherine - Credit: AFP via Getty Images ©AFP/Getty Images Asia Pacific  
As authorities scramble to protect lives and infrastructure amid record-high temperatures, more than a thousand firefighters continue their relentless work alongside helicopters dousing the flames with water. The fires come as an estimated 14 million Australians face catastrophic bushfire conditions across four states during this week's peak holiday period of Christmas and New Year, forcing many to seek shelter away from what they fear are life-threatening situations at home in the wildfires that have killed three people already.

"It is a tragedy for so many innocent lives lost," says Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk during an emergency press conference as she addresses residents, including her own family members who are displaced by the blaze near their home in Katherine region of Australia's north-east. "We mourn each life with those left behind but we will work together to restore hope and safety."

Authorities have warned that fires could rage for months as firefighters struggle against an apocalyptic firestorm driven by record heatwave conditions sweeping the entire continent, sparked partly due to a build-up of dangerous dry lightning strikes on Saturday night. Drought is set to persist through at least mid-2020 across Australia's eastern states where wildfire risks remain high even though most areas have seen rain since late last month and officials warn that the continent has entered "a new era" in firefighting tactics because of climate change, CNN reports.

Drought blankets much of east coast regions with raging bush fires as Australia enters a period expected to see 30 years without winter snow atop Mount Kosciuszko - Credit: AFP via Getty Images  
The blaze near Katherine is among several significant outbreaks in Queensland and New South Wales—both states where residents have been forced into mandatory evacuations as they endure "horrific" conditions, according to Premier Palaszczuk. A firefighter battling flames at an area known for its wildlife sanctuaries near Katherine was reported injured last week but is still in stable condition receiving treatment at the hospital this morning (29 December), she says.

Ms. Annastacia continues, "It's a challenge when you see devastation like that and to know there are people without shelter or their homes destroyed by flames they can do nothing about it." Meanwhile in New South Wales where thousands of firefighters continue battling blazes across the state as residents seek refuge away from towns threatened with destruction, Premier Gladys Berejiklian says emergency services officials have ordered mandatory evacuations for some areas because "the