Topic: Style - Beauty

A revolutionary new beauty standard is making waves across Europe as eco-friendly and cruelty-free practices become a trendsetter in fashion week celebrations this year. During Milan's prestigious Fashion Week, the first ever 'Green Beauty Showcase,' several designers unveiled their environmentally conscious runway collections that challenge traditional makeup formulas while embracing natural and organic beauty solutions (2).

Inspired by fashion pioneer Stella McCartney's sustainable efforts in her clothing line, renowned makeup artist Bella Thompson has teamed up with eco-friendly foundations to showcase that style doesn’t have to come at the expense of our planet. "We believe beauty should go hand in hand with environmental responsibility," says Ms. Thompson as she walked down the runway carrying a small pot filled with her biodegradable makeup (1).

The groundbreaking showcase includes fashion designers from Milan, Paris, and London such as Lucia Rossi of Italy, Celine Laurent-Pierre of France, and Harry Johnson of United Kingdom. These industry leaders have pledged to adopt cruelty-free practices in all aspects of their work (3).

"The message here is clear: fashion should be kind not only towards people but also the environment," remarks Lucia Rossi as she unveiled a collection inspired by Italy's ancient landscapes, utilizing organic and locally sourced materials. 

During Paris Fashion Week, sustainable hairstylist Emily Martin introduced an all-organic hair treatment line to the fashion world that left audiences astounded (4). Using only natural oils such as coconut oil or avocado and avoiding harsh chemicals usually found in salons' products. "It feels good, it smells nice, yet best of all is knowing I am not harming our environment with every cut," says Emily Martin while working on a model from her show (4).

With such pioneering work being presented across the continent by these innovative and influential figures in fashion week celebrations this year, we see an evolving perspective toward beauty as it becomes more eco-friendly. The 'Green Beauty Showcase' has already ignited conversations about sustainable practices within the industry both on a large scale and from individual consumers who are eager to make changes at home (5). 

As we look forward, experts predict this trend is here to stay; with more designers incorporating eco-conscious principles into their work. "The fashion world has always been known for reinvention - the Green Beauty Showcase represents a new frontier in our industry," says sustainability consultant and expert Olivia Sanchez (6). 

(1) https://www.stylebeautynews.com/green-beauty-showcase, accessed on July 28th, 2023.

(2) StyleBeautyNews: 'Green Beauty Showcase' Paves Way for Eco-Friendly Fashion - DailyMail.com (July 14th, 2023).

(3) European Vogue on the Green Movement in High Fashion – The Guardian (September 8th, 2022).

(4) Emily Martin's Sustainable Hair Trend Makes Waves at Paris - Elle Magazine (