Topic: World - Asia

Two teenagers from Thailand were rescued yesterday off an island near Phuket following a night of heavy rain and strong currents in the Andaman Sea that have claimed at least four lives since early April, when officials first began searching for them after they failed to return home. The bodies were discovered on May 4th by fishermen patrolling around Ched Toh Island near Phuket National Marine Park (NMP), and initial search efforts centered in the area where authorities believe the teens might have been washed ashore as high tides subsided at dawn, Thai Navy officials said. The group includes Prapan Angsakulchokkao, 17, from Phang Nga Province's Mueang District; Chanuton "Dao" Tantipornworakun, also of Mueang District; and Wiwat Yodkhomsap, a boy believed to be about Prapan’thy age who hails from Rayong. Authorities suspect the group went out in small boats seeking shellfish on May 1st but were caught off guard when heavy rains hit that evening with lightning strikes visible along nearby Phuket Island and Krabi Province, prompting panic among residents still recovering after devastating floods earlier this year. The sudden downpour caused the teens to seek shelter in a house on Ched Toh island before deciding they had no choice but attempt their escape back out into dangerous seas with strong currents following rainstorms, said Admiral Surakiat Sontheesuwan of Phuket NMP. Official searches since early April now have been expanded after the bodies were found to 15 nautical miles west-northwest from Ched Toh Island in deeper waters than officials had previously believed possible for such a rescue, said Ms Pitsanu Bunmaunglertong of Phuket Tourist Police. The search efforts began when Thai fishermen discovered the bodies after being told by some local residents they hadn't seen them since their boat trip to shore May 1st looking for shellfish. In response yesterday, Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha said officials were hopeful that rescuers would be able locate both teens within five days of intensified search efforts and vowed his administration wouldn't rest until the boys are found safe with their families again in Thailand or abroad if they ended up having relatives overseas. "It has not escaped our attention, nor us personally," he said while attending a ceremony at Phuket NMP to mark May Day ahead of national holiday celebrations next weekend where local firefig015 and lifeguard forces will patrol along the beaches near tourist resorts as well in waters close by. "It is our duty not only nationally but also internationally, so we won't stop until they are found." In a recent video interview with CNN reporters on May 2nd at Phuket NMP before he left for the holiday celebrations back home to Bangkok and elsewhere in Thailand where authorities will continue intensified search efforts. Prayut said, "We're working together as one country today; we won't let them die because of a natural disaster or human error." The boys' families say all are still safe but understand the situation is very serious with an extensive sea and beach area to cover during rescue operations where heavy rains have been common this time in May. 

"We pray