Topic: Travel - News

Traffic congestion has reached unprecedented levels in major cities across America as summer vacations are underway and travelers flock to popular destinations for a much-nedependent break from their daily grind, CNN reported Tuesday night. With the Fourth of July holiday approaching rapidly just weeks away on Wednesday next year, officials have expressed concerns that peak seasonal traffic could bring chaos similar to what was experienced in New York City last August when travel disruptions and gridlock crippled commute times nationwide for days following a massive blackout.

In Washington D.C., where tourists often visit the White House, National Mall or monuments like Lincoln Memorial as well as national landmarks such as Arlington Cemetery along the Potomac River; local officials warned of traffic jams similar to those experienced during previous Independence Day celebrations and last summer's blackout. "We understand that our citizens are eager for a getaway this year, but we also need them to be cautious," said Mayor Muriel Bowser in her statement issued Tuesday evening at the DC Convention Center after hosting meetings with transportation department heads throughout the day.

Miranda Thompson of Atlanta echoed those concerns about traffic jams and blackouts while traveling between cities over Independence Day weekend this year, saying that she experienced delays on numerous trips across America's East Coast as a result; "I heard from several people who were stranded in airports or stuck at gas stations for hours because of congested roads," Thompson said.

According to an analysis by the American Automobile Association, Americans planned to take 39 million trips over holiday weekends between now and August Fourth; this is up from last year's figure when AAA predicted people would make about a total of just under 27 million domestic trips nationwide.

The spike in travel demand has led local officials across the country to increase transportation services by hiring temporary workers, deploying more police on city streets during peak hours and providing extra information resources like traffic apps or websites with alternate routes as part of their emergency planning strategies since last summer's blackout.

"It would be naïve for us not to anticipate some form of power outage this year," said Dale Sullivan, a senior energy policy analyst at the National Energy Technology Laboratory in Pittsburgh; he advised citizens on how best to prepare ahead by ensuring that vehicles are stocked with fuel and maintaining contact information. "We can't control nature or prevent grid problems but we do need better resilience against them."

As demand for travel services continues through this summer season, many airlines have reported record numbers of passengers flying as well; American Airlines stated in a press release that it had carried more than 50 million people across the U.S., Europe and South America since May — up from around 46 million last year at this time according to data compiled by aviation industry group IATA.

"This has been an incredible summer for air travel, but with increased crowds come risks like delays or lost luggage," said Heather Fargo of American Airlines who spoke Tuesday on a conference call alongside CEO Doug Parker and President Robert Alden about company plans to handle the busy holiday season ahead. "We are expanding our capacity through additional flights, pilots as well as ground operations in order to accommodate demand."

With Independence Day just days away