Topic: Science - Space

A recent solar storm released an intense stream of charged particles towards Earth on March 15th. The powerful event was observed by NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory and could potentially disrupt satellite operations around the globe, according to space weather specialists at NOAA'enz Space Weather Prediction Center in Colorado Springs (CNN).

Space enthusiast Amelia Rodriguez witnessed the sun erupting with awe on Tuesday morning. "It was like watching fireworks but way bigger," she said, recalling how mesmerized she felt by seeing massive solar flares and coronal mass ejections from her backyard observatory in Flagstaff, Arizona.

The March 15th geomagnetic storm began when an M-class flare detonated on the sun's surface at around 4:30am Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). Researchers say these intense bursts of radiation release energy equivalent to a billion megatons of TNT.

Dr. Maria Fernandez, a space physicist with NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland said the powerful M-class flare was followed by an even stronger X-class eruption just 30 minutes later at around 5am EDT. "This is not something to take lightly," she commented on her colleague's findings, urging for immediate awareness within NASA and other space agencies worldwide about the storm that could have direct effects on communication systems including GPS signals.

Dr. John Smith from NOAA’s Space Weather Prediction Center says he expects fluctuations in radio frequency communications across North America, Europe, Asia, Africa during this event which is continuously monitored by his team of experts. "These storms could last for several hours," warns Dr. John Smith while adding that these effects are rare and often short-lived but not entirely impossible to occur simultaneously with the peak activity happening just at 7am EDT.

NASA'S Solar Dynamics Observatory team has been closely tracking this solar storm, which NASA predicts could reach a G5 scale on the Carrington Rating System for geomagnetic disru0ptions. This would be considered as one of strongest space weather events ever recorded by humans and if their prediction holds true it'll become history in less than 24 hours time from now, says Dr. Emily Jones an astronomer with NASA Goddard Space Flight Center who is coordinating efforts between observatories around the world to gather data during this unique event (Daily Mail).

While there are no current reports of any disruptions on Earth's surface due to these solar storm effects yet, officials warn that even small tremors in communication systems may cause problems if not resolved immediately. "We need a robust and coordinated response from the aviation industry," says Air Force Lieutenant General Edward Harrison who oversees satellite communications with military aircraft across North America (CNN).

Space agencies worldwide are working together to monitor this solar storm event, sharing observations between NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory in Maryland and other similar observatories positioned around the globe. As these two powerful X-class flares continue their ascent into space from Earth orbit towards our planet’s magnetic field lines; scientists urge citizens to stay safe indoors during peak activity at 7am EDT (March 15th) and avoid using sensitive electronic devices in case