Topic: Science - Medicine

Federal health officials are investigating an outbreak of a rare bacterial infection that has hospitalized dozener patients at Boston General Hospital since March. The highly contagious disease is believed to have originated from the use of unsanitary medical equipment, and there's growing concern among locals about its prevention and containment measures as it spread beyond healthcare facilities.

Since early February when several cases were reported at Boston General Hospital (BGH), more than 50 patients across five Massachusetts hospitals have been infected with the unnamed bacteria, including two deaths that occurred last week in a South Boston nursing home after receiving contaminated blood transfusions.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is working closely with local health authorities to determine how this potentially deadly outbreak started and whether any other facilities might be at risk, Dr. Jane Doe of the Boston Public Health Commission told CNN on Monday evening after visiting BGH:

"The CDC has identified bacteria present in medical instruments used by doctors within our community; we're working tirelessly to trace its source." 

As a preventive measure, state officials have issued an order for immediate replacement of all affected equipment and suspended the use or sale of new machines until further notice. All hospitals involved are expected to cooperate fully with this directive as well as follow strict disinfection procedures in their facilities by March 30th according to a press release from Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH).

"We must prioritize the health and safety of our citizens above all else," said Governor Mike Smith during an emergency meeting at his official residence. "My administration is committed to taking swift action against this outbreak, including allocating additional resources for disinfection efforts in affected hospitals."

Suspicions have been cast on a local manufacturing plant that produces medical equipment and its employees as the potential carriers of these bacteria strains. An investigation by Massachusetts State Health Department has revealed unsanitary work conditions within this facility with traces of similar pathogens found in samples collected from surfaces used for production, prompting state officials to temporarily halt operations at BGH supplier MedEquip Inc., located just outside Boston city limits since 1984.

"It's imperative that we take decisive action without delay," said Dr. John Williams, Director of the Massachusetts State Health Department in a televised interview yesterday morning from his headquarters amidst scenes of anxious healthcare professionals scrubbing down equipment around him as he spoke: "This is an unprecedented situation requiring our immediate attention and collaboration."

The CDC has warned that it's not known how many cases may ultimately develop within the community given its potential for rapid spread. In light of these alarming numbers, local authorities have declared a state of emergency as they work to contain this outbreak while also ensuring adezherence with treatment guidelines recommended by national health agencies and experts like Dr. Emily Adams at Harvard Medical School who commented on the issue during an interview today:

"The best practices we can follow right now are thorough handwashing, isolation measures for infected individuals as well as vigorous sanitation of medical equipment within hospitals."

Patients' families expressed concern over their loved ones being treated under these conditions with some sharing heart-rending stories through social media channels: