Topic: Science - Weather

A powerful winter storm is currently pummeling regions of the Midwest and Northeast with snowfall rates reaching up to two feet per day in some areas as temperatures plummet below zero degrees Fahrenheit, reports CNN Meteorologist Emergency Manager Michael Landman on January 15th. The blizzard warning extends through Tuesday night but is expected to ease by Wednesday afternoon with forecasts of snow continuing into early next week for some regions as the storm system slowly tracks eastward out over the Atlantic Ocean towards New England and then up I-95 toward Washington, D.CT.

"We're expecting a very active Nor'easter to follow soon after this blizzard," Landman said in an interview with CNN meteorologists on Tuesday morning while monitoring live weather radar from the National Weather Service (NWS) office located at BWI Marshall Field Transportation Center, Baltimore County. "The potential snowfall amounts and wind gusts could be quite severe."

At least three states are bracing for significant impact with Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker declaring a state of emergency while Illinois Senator Dick Durbin asked residents to conserve fuel due to the impending nor'easter, CNN reports. New York City Mayor Bill DeBlasio warned that upwards of 40 inches may accumulate in Central Park alone this weekend and urged people not to venture outdoors except for emergencies during bouts of extreme cold weather with wind chill values as low as -35 degrees F.

"We are facing an unprecedented situation that has already caused several deaths across the nation due to exposure," says Dr. Mark Smith, a leading expert at Johns Hopkins University who specializes in studying climate change's effect on extreme weather events and their impacts. "It is imperative for all of us now more than ever before to take proper precautions when navigating through these harsh conditions."

Meteorologists have predicted the storm system will rapidly intensify overnight as warm air from a low-pressure center in Southern US collides with colder and denser Arctic air, creating an incredibly volatile environment ripe for blizzard development. "The atmosphere's instability is astounding; we are seeing temperatures swing wildly between freezing point at ground level to subfreezing aloft," explains Dr. Sarah Johnson of the National Weather Service office in Cleveland Ohio while monitoring local weather radars on Tuesday afternoon, CNN meteorologists reports. "This atmospheric tug-of-war is bound to produce a monster snowstorm with heavy wet snows and gusty winds that will hammer us all day today."

In Boston's Financial District yesterday morning as the storm system began its march eastward towards New England, two strangers braved icy sidewalks on their way to work. "I knew something big was coming when my boss told me we needed emergency supplies," says Timothy Brown of Cambridge, MA who works at a local bank while holding onto his coat tightly around himself and snow boots as he walks with co-worker Maria Rodriguez from Boston University on Boylston Street. "I think everyone in the city is bracing themselves for this crazy weather."

As of 4pm ET, National Weather Service reports over a foot of accumulated snow across most areas affected by Winter Storm Nemo with wind gusts reaching up to 5