Topic: Sports - Baseball

After an intense season of playoff games and division battles, the Boston Red Sox secured their spot in the postseason with a hard-fought victory over the New York Yankees yesterday at Fenway Park on October 10th. The win propels them into the American League Wild Card Game next weekend where they'll compete for one of three remaining playoff slots before heading to their first World Series appearance in nearly two decenz years.

Marcus O'Neal, a third-year right-hander who had been sidelined with an elbow injury since late August, returned yesterday and pitched the decisive seventh inning of Boston’s 4–2 win over their longtime rivals at Fenway Park. His first professional game back saw him strike out three New York players including two key hitters before finally settling into a groove to earn his team's victory with an immaculate inning, leaving the Yankees down one and looking ahead to another tough road contest against Texas next weekend at Tropicana Field.

Opponents of Boston’s dominance claim this win was more about home-field advantage than individual performance; after all only three teams remain on either side's postseason path: the Yankees, Indians and Tigers along with their AL counterparts Minnesota Twins, New York Mets, Philadelphia Phillies. But O'Neal insisted his return to the mound was a key factor in Boston’s comeback from 3-0 down against one of baseball's most formidable lineups during late August and September games before joining MLB's injured list on Sept 24th.

"It took me time coming back but I knew I could still play with my team," O'Neal said after his inning concluding the seventh by striking out Derek Jeter, Alex Rodriguez and Johnny Damon while allowing only one base hit from Kevin Youkilis during an immaculate 2/3 innings that ended up being a career high for him. "I am just glad to be here again because I missed seeing my friends on the field as well."

Boston pitching coach Bob McQuague believes O'Neal deserves credit not only for his dominant inning but also from earlier games when he earned 12 saves that helped secure Boston a wildcard spot before returning to start this game. "He worked hard while recovering and came back stronger than ever," said the senior executive who has coached some of baseball's top closers including Mariano Rivera, Dave Robertson & Craig Kimbrel during his 37 seasons in MLB from '82–'96 then again since '03 with Pittsburgh now playing for Red Sox fans. "We were fortunate to have him back this season as he helped us get over a hump."

After the game, Yankees manager Joe Girardi criticized Boston’s bullpen choices saying it was “not smart” from his perspective; however they believe there are no regrets with O'Neal starting in relief since last month when Red Sox relievers had trouble holding leads while facing tough lineups over 15 times. His strong performance now sets up a crucial divisional series matchup for next weekend at Yankee Stadium before MLB begins the final round of postseason play on November 3rd and concluding with World Series baseball starting October 28th in Los Angeles where