Topic: Entertainment - Celebrity

In a surprising twist of celebrity life away from Hollywood glamour, famed actress Sandra Bell was reported missing in New York City on Friday evening around 8pm EST by her close friend and publicist Emily Roberts. Police were notified immediately after the call made to Bell's mother at their Upper East Side home when she noticed that Bell hadn’t arrived for a scheduled meeting as per usual, according to CNN Entertainment Special Correspondent John Taylor.

The 37-year-old star has been making headlines in recent years with her blockbuster performances on the big screen and equally compelling roles off it — yet nobody was expecting Bell would become next week’s missing person case as reported by local news outlets this evening, reports The Daily Mail.

Bell's mother Rose Dixon is understandably distressed after nearly two decades of being a part of her daughter's life without ever experiencing such trauma. “Sandra has always been like an extension of myself – we’ve known each other since college, and she became the best friend I could have wished for,” said Dixon overwhelmed with concern as police comb through Bell’s residences in various parts New York City searching for any leads that might explain her disappearance.

Sandra's publicist Emily Roberts shared a few details about what was observed by Sandra herself before she vanished, “I spoke to my girl this evening and while talking with her I saw something unsettling on the other line; it seemed like crying but there were no tears.” It’s still unclear why Bell would disappear without notice. No signs of struggle or foul play have been reported yet as authorities continue their search for Sandra in New York City, NY., according to The Daily Mail and various local police sources.

As the day progressed into Saturday with little movement on finding her missing friend since reports broke early Friday evening around 8pm EST (1 AM CET), friends of Bell expressed worry about where she might have gone off to without telling anyone, per CNN Entertainment Special Correspondent John Taylor’s report. “She never goes anywhere unaccompanied and it's so strange that there was no word from her since yesterday evening,” said a friend who wished to stay anonymous for their safety concerns in sharing the worrying development with media outlets like us, reports CNN Entertainment Special Correspondent John Taylor’s report.

A representative of Bell’s agency told The Daily Mail it is not clear if this disappearance has any connection or linkage between her and some recent off-screen controversy surrounding celebrities who have fallen victim to alleged stalkers, but the team working on Sandra's case had yet been able to confirm that as of now. “We’re treating each missing person individually,” said the spokesperson for Bell’s agent group which has a track record in managing various celebrities who have experienced distressing issues including abduction or harassment at one point or another, reports The Daily Mail and CNN Entertainment Special Correspondent John Taylor's report.

The celebrity community is rallying behind Bell with messages of support while concerned friends hope for the actress’ safe return soon as many fear it might not be an open-and-shut case due to her private life being often kept under wraps, per CNN Entertainment Special Correspondent John Taylor's report.

Sandra has a history that is well known in both personal and professional circles - from charity work championing