Topic: World - Americas

A massive flood hit parts of New Orleans on Wednesday night as a rare winter storm dumped up to three feet of snow in some areas around Lake Pontchartrain before moving eastward towards the Gulf Coast, bringing heavy rains and severe wind gusts that overwhelmed levee systems.

The Louisiana National Guard was mobilized after Mayor LaToya Cantrell confirmed at a news conference early Thursday morning local time that floodwaters had reached several neighborhoods along with parts of the Industrial Canal in New Orleans' Lower Ninth Ward and Bywater district, areas traditionally hardest hit by hurricanes.

As emergency crews worked around-the-clock to evacuate residents trapped in their homes due to waterlogged streets or impassable bridges connecting neighborhoods across the 700-mile long Mississippi River and its tributaries, Governor John Bel Edwards announced on Thursday he is deploying upwards of a thousand members from the National Guard along with federal assistance.

“This flood event in New Orleans has quickly become one of the most significant we’ve ever experienced,” said Edwards during his morning press conference at Jackson Barracks, southwest of Baton Rouge and across I-12 towers from downtown New Orleans on Thursday. “We are working very hard together with our sister state governments along Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee — these were states that have been hit before by floods because the Gulf Coast is a hurricane hotspot.”

In nearby Slidell and surrounding areas in St. Tammany Parish north of New Orleans which experienced heavy rains leading to their own flash flooding Wednesday night into Thursday, officials said at least four fatalities were reported as water rushed down from Lake Pontchartrain after the record-breaking snowfall overnight Tuesday and during early hours on Wednesday. A total of 14 people are confirmed dead in New Orleans alone due to floodwaters entering homes through doors, windows, ceilings or pipes breaking as water levels exceeded levee system capacity at multiple locations along the Mississippi River by more than a foot beyond normal crest heights.

“We got some rain yesterday (Tuesday) afternoon and then we had this snow,” said Melissa Goree of Covington, Louisiana about how she became stranded in her own home late Wednesday night after water flowed into the basement through a burst pipe where they left supplies including food to sustain their two young children. “I’m going down with my husband and we were able to get out on our way but there are other people that had not been so lucky.”

Local residents along the 10-foot Industrial Canal shared similar experiences of floodwaters quickly rising up, some forcing them into waist deep water as they tried desperately wading towards their homes or a neighbor's boat for rescue on Thursday morning. The National Weather Service reported that inundation along the Lower Ninth Ward and Bywater reached about six feet above ground level with no immediate end to rising waters predicted at this time of day local time while water was also surging into other neighborhoods, including parts of Jefferson Parish’s East New Orleans suburb located across Lake Pontchartrain.

“The weather has really been a mess,” said Mayor Cantrell during her Wednesday morning news conference with Edwards and state representatives from around Louisiana where she requested federal disaster relief funding to