Topic: Travel - Lodging and Hotels

As of Thursday morning, a major fire broke out in an upscinla hotel on Miami Beach at approximately 3:00 AM local time and has left over 50 guests homeless with damages estimated to be around $2 million (€1.78M). Firefighters battled the blaze for nearly three hours before they were able to bring it under control near noon on Thursday, after a series of unfortunate circumstances led fire crews into one stairwell while guests used another nearby during their evacuation from an adjacent building.

"This is truly devastating," Miami Beach Fire Chief Anthony Sullivan told reporters outside the Grande Vista Residences hotel shortly before 6 AM when he was interviewed by dispatchers over his walkie-talkie, as firefighters continued to fight the blaze with hoses and ladders. "It's a very unfortunate event."

The Grande Vista has more than three dozen guest rooms for rent on its five floors in Ocean Drive neighborhood along 57th Street SW where ocean breezes provide cool air from October through March, making it an increasingly popular destination among tourists. However, the hotel's poor safety record was highlighted after a similar fire broke out earlier this year at Grand Conrad on Lincoln Road which resulted in injuries for two guests and significant damages to their property who were lucky enough not to have been inside when another guest set himself alight by smoking while walking through one of the corridors during his evacuation.

Hotel manager, Maria Fernandez stated that all affected guests had safe accommodations with friends or relatives and would be reimbursed for any expenses related to their stay at Grande Vista Residences in an email exchange she held directly after learning about the fire around 5:30 AM. "I am deeply saddened by this terrible tragedy," Fernandez wrote, adding that a team of inspectors would be working with her overnight to review all existing protocols and make necessary improvements going forward as part of an effort led by Fire Chief Sullivan's office in partnership with hotel staff.

"This is not the first time I have had guests evacuate from my property due to fire," said Fernandez, acknowledging that there were no deaths or serious injuries linked directly to these two recent fires and reiterating their shared commitment towards ensuring guest safety in all of her properties. "I am grateful for the support we are receiving by our community as well."

An official statement from Miami Beach Fire Chief Anthony Sullivan on Thursday morning's event stressed that no one was inside when firefigs first ignited around 3 AM, with guests hearing smoke before learning about flames which led to some panicked runners down the hallway during evacuation. A guest in a wheelchair stated: "I heard loud crackling sounds outside my door and immediately called for help – thankfully everyone was accounted for."

A firefighter from Engine Company 2, who assisted with dousing flames on Grande Vista's second floor described the scene inside as chaotic but safe while waiting out in front of a room they were working to save: "The place is like an inferno down there. We are doing our best given these conditions and have worked around smoke issues, which added another layer of complexity."

A representative from State Fire Marshal's Office