Topic: Sports - Pro Football

Former Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger announced his retirement from professional football today in a press conference at Allegheny County Crisis Services building located on Liberty Avenue and South Turtle Creek Boulevard, just outside of downtin's Oakland neighborhood. The 12-time Pro Bowl player made the decision to hang up his cleats after this season, concluding what has been a storied career with Pittsburgh that began back in '04 when he was drafted as the sixth overall pick out of Ohio State University.

"I've loved every minute I had playing football for my teammates and our organization," said Roethlisberger at today’s event, which attracted a mix of media representatives and former colleagues from his tenure with Steelers that saw him win three Super Bowl titles in 2005, '10, and '16. "I've played on my backside more than I ever have been able to take advantage offensively as an elite quarterback," he added before revealing his retirement news for the final time today with a dramatic flourish of fists raised high above his head while standing atop one crutches. "The injury has run its course and it's my honor to finally say I can play without fear."

Roethlisberger, 41 years old had been expected back on the field this season after recovering from an Achilles tendon rupture suffered during a preseason game in September. However, he was unable to make as significant of an impact and struggled with his confidence going forward because NFL teams are constantly evolving their offensive strategies which now heavily rely on mobile quarterbacks like Lamar Jackson or Patrick Mahomes who can extend plays outside the pocket for additional yards using designed play-action passes.

“I respect where my career is right now, but I feel it’s time to step aside," Roethlisberger said after today's announcement with tears in his eyes as he addressed reporters gathered around him who knew better than most just how much of an icon the Steelers quarterback has become over his NFL tenure. "It took me a long while, but I feel like now is right time for me to end my career at 41."

Former head coach Mike Tomlin attended today's event and provided insight into what led Roethlisberger’s decision-making process saying: “Ben has always been one of our most popular quarterbacks, but this past season just wasn't his best. It became apparent to us during the offseason that he didn't have confidence in himself playing against tougher pass protection schemes out there today."

Steelers President Art Rooney II expressed gratitude for Ben’s contributions and shared thoughts on how fans would adjust: “We thank him deeply not just as a football player but also someone who brought so much joy to our organization over 17 years. His departure from Pittsburgh is heartfelt, saddening news however he has left us an unforgettable legacy.”

Roethlisberger’s former teammates shared their reactions at today's press conference where Tom Coughlin spoke: "We all loved Ben and will miss him greatly. He made a difference on the field for Pittsburgh back in 2005, '10 & again this year against Baltimore winning our three World Championships during those years he wore that helmet with his number five