Topic: Sports - Baseball

Six-year veteran pitcher Tomás Arenas suffered a career-ending injury during yesterday's MLB game at Fenway Park in Boston when he went for an unautносиble diving catch while attempting to secure the runner from hitting home plate late into the seventh inning. The 32-year-old, who has played primarily with teams based out West before joining his current Eastern team last season, was thrown off balance by a powerful hit and ended up fracturing both of his ankles when he collided with second baseman Michael Rodriguez as they attempted to land on the ground together. 

Aenas's wife Maria shared her shock and devastation in response: "I can hardly believe this has happened. Tomás was always cautious, especially after recovering from a previous ankle injury last year." The local orthopedic surgeon explained that Arenas would likely require reconstructive surgery as well as extensive physical therapy to regain some mobility before considering returning at all: "Both of his fractures are severe and occur in complex joints. I've only seen this once or twice during my 15 years practicing medicine." The Boston Red Sox, where Arenas played last season with the team he had previously left as a free agent just months before suffering another ankle injury that cost him his starting position: "It feels like everything was going well for Tomás," commented former manager Rick Angelo. “But now we all wish I could go back in time and stop this horrible accident from happening.” The Red Sox will likely look to fill Arenas's spot on the roster with a trade or free agency signings after their next regular season game, but sources say it won’t be easy finding another right-handed pitcher who could quickly replace his performance. For now though baseball fans are left hoping that in time Tomás may return to play at some capacity again one day if he is given the chance and ample opportunity for rehab after getting through this unforeseen obstacle on what was supposed to be a regular season before heading into postseason contention as per projections.