Topic: Style - Design

In an unprecedented move within the fashion industry of Milan this weekend, a renowned Italian designer announced his retirement at age 65 following decades as one of Italy's most influential names in haute couture and ready-to endorsements alike. Giovanni Bellucci will step down from helm after opening two iconic stores on Via Montenapoleone last March, the heartbeat of Milan’s fashion scene where high street meets luxury label headliners during Fashion Week events every February through September.

Bellucci's decision came as a surprise to many within and outside his personal network, given that he had previously announced in 2018 an ambitious partnership with leading Italian textile manufacturer Fabbrica Moda Italiana (FMI) for the production of sustainable fabrics. The collaboration is expected to revolutionize Bellucci’s approach to eco-friendly fashion practices, but it appears he may not be around long enough to see this fruition in his personal runway shows and collections.

"I have loved my time here every single day," said Bellucci during the announcement at Via Montenapoleone's newly inaugurated boutique "Bellucci Vero." He added, however, that retirement was a natural step after working for more than five decades in an industry known to be relentlessly demanding. His partner of 40 years and close confidante, Maria Bellucci said: “Giovanni is the soul behind our creations; his passion has always been evident in each garment we've brought out.”

Bellucci’s decision drew both sadness from long-time colleagues at FMI as well as accolades for championing sustainability within fashion. Giulia Ricci, Bellucci Vero store manager commented: “He was a mentor to many of us here – his guidance and innovation have been instrumental in helping our team navigate these tough times.” His retirement also raises questions about the future direction of Italian haute couture as designers seek new ways to marry fashion, sustainability, technology and profit within an increasingly competitive industry.

Bellucci Vero boutique director Maria Bellucci commented on how she sees it: “I am proud that we have opened this space dedicated solely to Giovanni’s vision of a greener future in Milan's heart – I believe his legacy will live long, even as he retires.” The bellui family and industry peers are currently planning commemorative exhibitions across major Italian fashion capitals including Turin, Naples, Florence, Rome, Genoa, Parma, Brescia to celebrate Bellucci’s life work in Milan before his 65th birthday next year.

Even as the design world mourns Giovanni's passing at a time when eco-conscious fashion is becoming increasingly relevant amidst rising consumer awareness of sustainability and environmental impact, many feel that Bellucci’s work has already left an indelible mark on Milanese haute couture. As one former colleague stated: “His vision always inspired us to do better – his retirement is a bittersweet moment for the Italian fashion industry.”