Topic: Sports - Pro Football

Buffalo Bills' Josh Allen suffered a high ankle sprain in Week 16 against Pittsburgh Steelers on December 30 at Highmark Stadium that could sideline him for up to six weeks, team doctor Dr. Michael Mullaney said yesterday (December 31).

Allen took the snap but was unable to step off as his right ankle popped out of place during a third-and-goal drive in the first half when Buffalo had possession with just over three minutes left before halftime. The injury occurred at Soldier Field on Sunday night, and it marked Allen's second season-ending setback this year after he tore his ACL against Tampa Bay Buccaneers last December 29th in Week 15 of the NFL regular season.

Buffalo Bills’ quarterback Josh Allen suffered a high ankle sprain during Sunday night'nerve, which could sideline him for up to six weeks,” Dr. Michael Mullaney said yesterday (December 31). “We will know more as time goes on and we continue with our evaluation.”

Dr. Daniel Barone, who specializes in sports medicine at Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center — a facility less than two miles from Highmark Stadium – told NBC News that Allen's ankle sprain is the result of what he described as “an unfortunate combination” between trauma to his body and pre-existing ligament issues.

“I think this injury was just bad luck,” Barone said yesterday (December 31). He added, that Allen's Achilles tendon also appears inflamed on MRI images from the game — a concern for Buffalo Bills’ head coach Sean McDermott and general manager Brandon Supply.

In Week 12 against Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Highmark Stadium in Orchard Park, Allen suffered his second season-ending injury of this year when he tore the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) on a strip sack by Steelers’ linebacker Devin Bush.

“I would have never thought that Josh would go down for two ACLs,” McDermott said yesterday, adding “Josh is one of our most talented players and as hard-working guys we know the best way to deal with these injuries are physical therapy sessions.”
 
Allen was in good spirits at his team's weekly Monday press conference last night (December 31), joking, “I feel like I’m getting hit harder by cars on my morning commute than when you guys threw me to the ground,” with a wink and an eye roll. Allen is scheduled for another evaluation this afternoon before deciding if he should play in next Sunday's contest against Houston at Highmark Stadium — or sit out as originally planned following his injury Monday night, NBC News reported.

The Bills are expected to use 2019 third-round pick Dillon Davenport on the field while Allen is sidelined until he has regained full mobility in his ankle and leg — or longer if needed after assessing him fully this coming Thursday (January 3) at Highmark Stadium when they meet with their medical staff, according to NFL.com.

Bills fans are braced for a challenging first quarter of the AFC's Buffalo-Miami rival