Topic: Sports - Pro Football

Los Angeles Rams cornerback Robert Quinn's outstanding performance against his former team led to a historic win as they secured their spot in Super Bowl LIII on Sunday at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia. In the NFC Divisional Playoff game last night between No. 2 Seattle Seahawks and Los Angeles Rams (noon ET PST), Quinn intercepted Russell Wilson'three times to lead his team from behind with a jaw-dropping touchdown pass back, according to FOX Sports report on Tuesday afternoon in Atlanta after the game.

This unprecedented moment has solidified Rams fans and players alike as key contenders for their first Super Bowl victory since 1999; an achievement not witnessed by many before them when they were based in St. Louis, Missouri (March). "I'm honored to be a part of this team that has overcome so much," said cornerback Robert Quinn after his triumphant performance against the Seattle Seahawks last night at Mercedes-Benz Stadium.

Seattle quarterback Russell Wilson was known for having masterful games, yet he couldn't find success in an increasingly challenging environment as Los Angeles rallied around him with some of their best players on defense and special teams making plays when they needed it most — a feat no one would ever forget. "We always knew we could count on our teammates to rise above," said Seahawks linebacker Bobby Wagner, acknowledging the unwavering spirit that kept them in contention against their division rivals all season long (November).

Los Angeles Rams cornerback Robert Quinn's career highlight came after a dominant first half and relentless defense throughout Sunday’s NFC Divisional Playoff game, securing the team with 13:45 remaining on Fox. After Wilson fumbled due to pressure from rookie running back Todd Gurley in Week 2 against Dallas Cowboys (October), Rams defensive coordinator Wade Young said at the time that his cornerbacks would need to "rise up" and deliver a performance worthy of their fans.

The statement has now become reality as Quinn delivered what he called an outstanding showing, one in which Wilson struggled from beginning to end when it mattered most (November). Accordingly, Young praised the cornerback's contribution: "Robert brought his all-time best game yesterday," and credited him for being a leader on defense that kept pressure up throughout every quarter.

Despite their impressive play in 2018 leading them to make it through seven games without suffering any losses, the Seahawks had an undefeated season since they started as time spent with Wilson at the helm for Seattle (October). They have played a record-tying six divisional titles under his guidance and reached four NFC championship victories; however, their Super Bowl LII loss against Philadelphia Eagles has motivated them to find success in any way possible.

With both teams set as the No. 2 seeds after last night's win for Rams quarterback Jared Goff over Seattle starter Russell Wilson at Atlanta Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Sunday, it will come down to this one game with a decisive victory earning them their first Super Bowl title since they moved from St Louis in the late 90’s.

Super Bowl LIII