Topic: Travel - News

Travel Restrictions Lifted in Europe as Covid-19 Cases Decline | CNN Health and Wellness Report 
In an optimistic turn of events for the travel industry across Europe, numerous countries have eased restrictions to accommodate more international visitors this summer. The decision comes after a steady decline in cases over several months that has convinced health authorities it's safe enough to relax border controls while still monitoring local transmission levels closely. 

After years stuck inside due to Covid-1dealing travel bans, many European countries are eager for tourists and business opportunities alike with numbers expected to increase significantly this year after a devastating downturn in the previous two. To aid recovery efforts across Europe's major destinations from Paris to Prague; London down south towards Lisbon up north - governments have started reintroducing travel freedoms, though some nations still maintain health precautions like vaccine mandates or testing for all incoming passengers in an effort to prevent a resurgence of the virus.

"Our decision is based on trusting our citizens and their ability to make informed choices about how best protect themselves," said Johanna Holm, Minister of Health Services from Denmark's center-right Liberal Party as quoted by Reuters news agency last week when announcing that they would reopen borders at full capacity beginning August 1st. She added "We have seen significant declines in case numbers over the past months and feel confident about continuing our progress while balancing health risks with economic recovery".

As of today, France plans to lift travel restrictions by September which will enable unrestricted movement within Europe once again as per announcements from officials earlier this month after seeing a steady decrease in cases over the past two months. This marks an important step forward for those who have long missed their annual getaways with family or friends during Covid-19 travel bans across much of 2020 and early parts into next year but experts warn that there may still be risks present even after easing restrictions given new variants like Delta continue emerging constantly around the globe.

"While it is encouraging to see case numbers going down, we should not let our guard down just yet," says Dr Sarah Thompson from Europe's largest public health institute EuroHealthCouncil emphasizing that continued adherence to preventive measures such as hand hygiene and social distancing remain essential. 

Many European tourist spots have already seen an increase in bookings this month compared with the same period last year, though still below pre-pandemic levels but some worry about potential future outbreaks if people let down their guard now that travel bans are lifted again across Europe's cities and towns. 

"We don't want to end up back where we started from so it is essential everyone continues practicing good hygiene habits like washing hands regularly," says Lars Svensson, owner of a popular Stockholm-based café who has witnessed growing tourism traffic over the past two months. 

With more countries reopening their borders and Covid-19 vaccinations gaining ground across Europe, millions are expected to take vacations soon - including those travelers arriving on flights from other continents like Asia or North America who will need an approved certificate showing proof of full immunization before they may cross the threshold into EU territories without undergoing quarantine. Some countries still maintain health requirements such as mandatory wearing mask