Topic: World - China

Chinese authorities have imposed new measures to restrict outbound foreign travel amid escalating concerns over a novel coronavirus that originated in Wuhan City but is now affecting regions as far-flung as Italy, France, and the United States of America (USA). The government reported on Tuesday 31 March that it had suspended all flights to countries experiencing widespread transmission of COVID-19.

As cases continue to rise in China with a total now surpassing five thousand people infected, Beijing is taking no chances when it comes to containing the virus within its borders or abroad; officials warned that anyone attempting foreign travel without approval risks being detained and returned home immediately for quarantine. The country's aviation regulator announced a temporary halt on all international flights until further notice, impacting millions of passengers stranded across Asia with nowhere to go but back — not because they have done anything wrong or are under investigation by the authorities themselves; rather it is part of an urgent public health initiative.

"It's essential that we protect our citizens and prevent any further spread outside China," says Chinese Health Minister Li Ang, addressing reporters during a press conference today at Beijing National Centre for Disease Control (CDC). "The temporary suspension of international flights is necessary until the virus outbreak comes under control."

According to statistics released by Hubei Province's health commission on Tuesday, there are now more than 470 confirmed cases within mainland China - including three fatalities; however these numbers seem relatively small compared to what has happened elsewhere as nearly half the world population finds themselves at risk of contracting COVID-19.

"The situation is dire," says Dr. Maria Rodriguez, head virologist from Johns Hopkins University and an expert on emerging infectious diseases who spoke with Reuters by telephone today in Washington DC USA; "We need more robust measures to control the transmission of this virus across borders."

Mary Smith*, a nurse working at Queen Elizabeth Hospital (QEH) London, is just one American citizen caught up in China's travel restrictions. After visiting relatives for New Year celebrations back home and returning on 18 January without knowing she had been exposed to COVID-19 during her stay there; Smith arrived here yesterday via a flight from Beijing that was subsequently grounded at London Heathrow Airport amid increasing international concern about the virus's severity.

"I didn't feel sick when I landed," says Mary, speaking on phone today before undergoing testing for COVID-19 symptoms and travel history; "It all happened so fast." In a statement issued by HM Passport Office in London yesterday afternoon, they confirmed that 370 Britons - including Smith herself who hails from the sunny city of Miami Florida USA – have been evacuated to QEH for quarantine. They are awaiting results on their COVID-19 test before deciding whether or not each individual can safely return home; as many more Americans and others travelers worldwide find themselves in similar situations due to China's new policy measures, officials continue working around the clock trying to balance safety with humanitar06