Topic: Entertainment - Television

Dwayne Johnson's New Talk Show Set to Launch This Fall: 'THE DONNYJOHNS COMEBACK PROJECT' Will Feature Celebrities and Special Guests with Reality-TV Elements Intended for Adult Audiencl

In a move that’s set the entertainment world abuzz, veteran actor Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson is reviving his television presence next month. The star of blockbuster hits such as 'Hardball' and franchises like 'Moana', has announced via Instagram post last Tuesday: A new primetime talk show will debut on November 10th, titled ‘THE DONNYJOHNS COMEBACK PROJECT.’

Johnson’s return to television is being hailed by both fans and peers alike. The former box-office superstar told Variety in a statement: “I hope that this show brings joy and laughter, as well some insight into the entertainment industry—and maybe even myself.” Johnson will host alongside his longtime friend and fellow actor Ryan Reynolds on select episodes for special guests to be revealed over time.

With its roots firmly planted in reality-TV format but with a focus that’s expected more grounded than most of those shows, 'The Donnys Comeback Project' is said by sources close the production team, who spoke under condition of anonymity due to non-disclosure agreements, not only celebrates Johnson and Reynolds at their peak careers but also challenges them both on occasion as they venture into various industries beyond acting. This endearing show aims for comedic elements while providing some relatable advice from the seasoned actors’ perspectives - with no shortage of fun family moments between cameras, too.

“I always knew we made great friends doing our work on set,” Johnson explained to Deadline last month about his close relationship and friendship-filled journey alongside Reynolds through projects like ‘The Call,’ for which they both earned a Golden Globe nomination in 2017. “[‘Comeback Project’] allows us the opportunity not only just share our personal experiences but also learn from each other.”

Producers hope to attract Johnson's loyal fans while simultaneously drawing curious eyes that may be new to his persona outside of action-packed blockbusters, hoping for a hit show at least as big as 'The Bachelor,' according to sources. The first episode is already in post and being shopped around the networks; ‘Comeback Project’ could air live on Monday nights starting next fall after premiering earlier this year during New York Comicon convention weekend between August 7th-9th.

“I love bringing people together, sharing laughter with friends," Johnson said in his statement to Variety last month about the show's mission and appeal for family entertainment value that comes from watching him at home – which is just one of several unique aspects being discussed by industry insiders on how it could differentiate itself.

“I think what makes ‘Comeback Project’ so special will be its focus not only celebrating our friendship but also challenging us both to expand beyond film and TV,” Reynolds shared in an interview with Entertainment Weekly when asked about the project backstage during 'The Call' press event at Paramount Studios where they filmed it.

Reynolds, who previously starred alongside Johnson on ‘Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales