Topic: Science - Weather

Hurricane Eloise made landfall near Pensacola Beach on Sunday with wind speeds of up to 130 mph as forecasters braced for its impact along the Florida Panhandle coastline. Forecasters from National Hurricane Center warned that this could be one of the most significant storm events in over a decade, putting thousands at risk and potentially causing billions in damages.

Eloise formed off the western African coast earlier this week before moving westward towards an area heavily trafficked by cruises and tourists during peak season. The National Hurricane Center has issued several warnings to residents along Florida's Gulf Coast, advising immediate evacuation for those in Eloise’s predicted path as the storm is projected to reach its full strength before touchdown on U.S soil.

“Even though we are hoping that it won’t cause any significant harm or casualties,” said meteorologist Jane Martin from National Weather Service, “we still need people living in Eloise's path to take this storm seriously and prepare themselves for possible power outages.” 

Authorities have urged evacuees to pack enough water, food supplies, batteries and medications needed as the eye of Hurricane Eloise is expected to pass over Florida within the next day. Several shelters in Pensacola Beach are at full capacity but continue taking refuge seekers for several hours after their initial intake time according to shelter director Mark Reynolds:
“Our first priority has been keeping everyone safe and comfortable, which we've done so far thanks to volunteer efforts from the community. We’re doing our best with what supplies are available.” 

At this stage in Hurricane Eloise’s development as it nears Florida Gulf Coast communities at around noon on Sunday local time, its maximum sustained wind speeds have reached a Category 4 status on Saffir-Simpson's hurricane wind scale. Residents living along the coastline were preparing to endure high tide waves expected by late tonight and early tomorrow morning when Eloise is projected make landfall, with some towns having seen tropical storm force gusty wind speeds earlier in Sunday’s afternoon rush hour traffic jams.

Eloise's path has been predicted to be more northward than the typical Gulf Coast impact from Hurricanes and Tropical Storms due mainly by its interaction with a trough of low pressure moving through South Carolina that will steer it offshore towards Florida Panhandle for landfall, according to an Associated Press report. The storm is expected inland across Mississippi before entering the Tennessee Valley region on Monday morning where rainfall and flooding are possible along Interstate 40 corridor from Memphis northwards through into Kentucky.

Scientists say that Eloise’s strengthening comes as a result of warming ocean temperatures in recent years, which have been linked to climate change reports NBC News citing researchers at National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). While officials are warning the public not to draw immediate connections between such events alone indicating changes due to human activities. “It’s important we look past short-term weather events before jumping into conclusions,” said Dr. John Parker, professor of Meteorology at the University of Florida and an expert on tropical storm forecasting according to WJLA news in Washington D.C..