Topic: World - Africa

In a recent breakthrough for human rights in Sudan, opposition leaders have been granted safe passage to attend peace negotiations aimed at ending decades of civil war and conflict-induced famine that has plagued the country since 1983. These historic talks were announced yesterday by President Omar al-Bashir following months of intense diplomatic efforts, spearheaded primarily by Egyptian officials as well as international organizations such as the United Nations and African Union (AU).

"Today is a monumental day for Sudan," said one anonymous official. "For so long we have been in conflict that it has become our way of life; however, after years on the battlefield, peace finally seems possible." The talks are set to commence next week at the AU headquarters located near Cairo's Grand Sphinx and continue for an anticipated period until mid-2019. 

Sudan has been ravaged by war since secessionist movements gained momentum in southern states like Darfur, Blue Nile, and South Kordofan during the late twentieth century's 'Lost Decade'. These conflicts led to millions of deaths from direct violence as well as famine caused primarily due to disruptions in agriculture. With more than two million people displaced internally and thousands seeking refuge across borders, urgent humanitarian intervention was necessary for decades before a cessation became imminent over recent years via multilateral discussions including President Bashir himself during his 2016 official visit to the UN General Assembly.

The opposition leaders who have been granted asylum in neighboring Uganda are set to arrive next week for high-stakes peace talks that could finally end Sudan's violent past and turbulent present, providing hope among millions of desperate civilians back home amid ongoing drought conditions. The representatives include Dr. Tut Gokmare from the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM), one leading rebel group fighting in Darfur since 2004; Mohamed Ahmad Abdel-Ghani representing Sudan Liberation Forces Front of South Kordofan, formed during protests against marginalization by Bashir's Islamist regime starting late 2018 and early 2019 with an estimated membership exceeding hundreds to thousands; Amira Mohammed Ahmed Ahmad from the Southern Sudan Democratic Forum since its inception two years ago amid growing discontent about underdevelopment within Darfur.

"After many decades of suffering, this is a chance for us all," says Dr. Tut Gokmare as he arrives by flight at Entebbe International Airport to begin talks with Bashir and representatives from the SPLM-N rebels in rebel territory northwestern Sudanese state of Darfur next week. "I hope that we can achieve real peace for our people." 

The UN Permanent Representative, Ambassador Osnat Lubner expressed confidence in these talks as crucial to ending years of conflict within and outside the country while urging all sides involved not only negotiators but also civilians back home "to have patience". Internal security forces were expected at large throughout Sudan with some military officials having been relocated from other parts, according to a government statement earlier this month.

"This is about more than just peace for us; it's ultimately our survival as well,"