Topic: World - Africa

Amidst a period of political turmoil in Burkina Faso, recent months have seen an escalating crisis as armed insurgents advance across rural communities and major cities alike. As per the latest UN estimates released on April 21st, more than half a million people are internally displaced within its borders while thousands continue to flee into neighboring countries including Côte d'Ivoire, Mali, and Niger Republic seeking refuge from violence that has rocked West Africa since late 2019.

"This conflict is nothing new in the region," said Marie-Claude Leroux, a regional expert based at Cheikh Anta Diop University of Dakar in Senegal who has been following developments closely. "Burkina Faso's instability traces back to years before and it seems there are no clear solutions on sight."

It all began when extremist group known as the Group for Supporting Islam And Muslim Philanthropies (GSIM), formed in 2019, has taken hold of much of northern Burkina Faso's territories. The insurgents have targeted civilians including women and children with forced recruitment tactics along side acts of terrorism; attacks that they claim to be part of a fight against what the group views as "Islamic extremists" infiltrating Burkina Faso since 2015.

The UN refugee agency reports nearly half a million displaced people living outside their homes with more than 6,497 new arrivals arriving from Niger Republic alone between January and March this year – an increase of over 23% compared to the same period last year when less than two thousand such migrants arrived.

African Union's Special Representative for Burkina Faso Dr. Abo Hassane says that political efforts on regional stabilization have failed so far and a military approach might not be enough either given how entrenched these extremists are within communities across the country where 20% of citizens still live below poverty line according to latest World Bank figures from last year (2019).

"The security dilemma is complex, but it's critical that we identify underlying issues driving this conflict," Dr. Hassane told Reuters on the sidelines during an African Union summit held in Addis Ababa today where world leaders gathered to discuss interventions amidst regional instability spillover impacting beyond their borders into neighbor countries causing a refugee crisis not seen since early 2015 when millions fled Libya’s civil war.

Meanwhile, as thousands continue fleeing across the Sahel region daily seeking safety and security within its boundaries where some areas experience high crime rates with an influx of internally displaced persons adding further strain on already limited resources; international aid agencies have increased funding efforts alongside governments working together towards finding lasting solutions to restore peace back into one land once again torn apart by strife.

"The crisis here will not go away without concerted global and regional actions," said Mohamed Ibrahim, spokesman for International Committee of the Red Cross who has been visiting displaced communities in northern Burkina Faso since early this year reporting first-hand accounts from affected populations struggling just to survive daily life amidst chaos engulfing around them.

As international media coverage continues focusing more and more attention on Africa's escal