Topic: World - Africa

As dawn breaks across East Africa's Lake Victoria region on Saturday morning, communities along its vast waters are reporting a surge in invasive zebra mussel populations which experts believe could disrupt local ecosystems and fishing industries if left unchecked. In the past year alone, sightings of these non-native species have doubled within this region known for their rich aquatic life and as one of Africa' endangered freshwater sources.

"This is alarming," says Dr. Lilian Otieno from Nairobi University’s Marine Biology department who has been leading research on the lake's ecosystem health in recent years. "We have yet to understand just how much these mussels could impact native fish and plant species.” 

Zebra mussels, originally from Eastern Europe, were accidentally introduced into North America’s Great Lakes over forty years ago through ballast water discharges of commercial ships - a global issue that has since spread across various continents. It's not clear how they arrived in Africa though researchers speculate this might be due to increasing international trade and boating activities on the lake, which connect numerous East African nations such as Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Mozambique with neighboring countries like South Sudan.

In recent months alone, invasive zebra mussels have been discovered in over 40 sites around Lake Victoria - a number that has doubled compared to the previous year's findings per local environmental officials and fisheries managers. With thousands of kilometers of shoreline stretching from Uganda’s southern tip up through Tanzania, Burundi into Rwanda, these mussels could easily spread across territories if not kept in check - a feared scenario for many who rely on the lake's fisheries and biodiversity.

"The presence of zebra mussels is definitely disrupting our traditional ways of life here," shares Mr. Peter Nalika, 60-year-old native Ugandan from Mwanza city working in Lake Victoria’s commercial fish market for three decades and now witnesses the declining catch rates firsthand as well hears reports about mussel invasions along his shoreline stretching hundreds of miles.

According to local environmental authorities, these zebra mussels can multiply quickly; a single female could produce upwards of 10 million eggs annually - enough numbers that it's almost impossible for communities and governments alike not notice their impact sooner or later if proactive measures aren’t taken.

"If we continue to ignore this, our livelihood will be severely threatened," says Dr Nalika echoing concerns among other local fishermen across the region who fear job losses in coming years as well disruptions on aquatic food chains and habitats that could devastate freshwater species endemic here like cichlids which are popular with tourists.

A joint research effort by experts from multiple East African countries is currently underway aiming to understand how these mussels can be managed or controlled without causing unintentional harm on the native ecosystems – a task requiring careful scientific study and public participation too given that this problem has been growing steadily over decades.

"It’s going to take time, but we believe with continued vigilance of our watersports activities as well collaborative regional effort between nations sharing Lake Victoria can mitigate