Topic: Science - Weather

A powerful storm hit Florida's west coast last night, causing extensive flooding and power outages in parts of Hendry County. The hurricane-force wind gusts that accompanied the system began around midnight when a tree fell on top of an electrical pole at Manatee Rd & Hwy 24A SE Miami Gardens.

"The impact was immediate," said local resident and emergency responder John Thompson, who helped evacuate people from their flooded homes that night. "Within minutes after the power went out, water started to pour into basements and living rooms."

As of this morning (June 28), over two dozen roads remain impassable due to rising waters in areas between Hollywood and Naples along Route A1A East from SR-70 all the way up past Sanibel Island. Power is still down for thousands, according to reports on social media feeds shared by local community members who are actively coordinating efforts with utility companies like Duke Energy Florida (DEF).

"It's been an uphill battle trying just get our crews out here in response," DEF spokespner Cindy Martinez told reporters on Wednesday. "The roads have already started reopening, but we still need to be vigilant because there could always be more storm surges."

This weekend's severe weather is expected continue until Sunday evening when a high-pressure system will begin moving in from the Gulf Coast and help alleviate rainfall. Still, meteorologists warn that it won't bring any respite for power lines or other infrastructure affected by last night's storm surge waves which are estimated to have reached upwards of 5-6 feet high along coastal stretches between Miami Beach and the Everglades National Park in Big Cypress.

"We were expecting some heavy rain on Saturday, but nothing we could not handle," said Hendry County Emergency Management Director Karen Rodriguez Monday evening after coordinating response efforts with local law enforcement authorities from nearby counties like Broward and Dade as well as federal agencies such FEMA. "Our top priority is making sure everyone affected by this event has access to safe shelter."

State Governor Ron DeSantis was among those in attendance at a press conference later held alongside county officials around midnight yesterday when initial damage reports started coming through, urging Floridians not to delay seeking help if they were experiencing issues due to power loss or water intrusion into their homes. "We are working tirelessly with all levels of government and the utility companies on this unprecedented natural disaster," he said as residents huddled inside shelters provided by local fire departments located at nearby high schools like Palm View Elementary, Pompano Park Middle School in Delray Beach & Deerfield Academy for Girls.

Meanwhile outside the shelters with flashlights and hand-held fans on full blast trying to stay cool amidst humid temperatures that hover around 85 degrees Fahrenheit are thousands of volunteers like Thompson who continue assisting in evacuation efforts from their own flooded homes or helping clean up debris at local ditches along the affected coastline.

"As long as there is something we can do to help, that's all it takes for me," he said before joining another rescue team heading out this morning into an area near 69th