Topic: Science - Climate

A freak hailstorm struck early Monday morning in Denver, Colorado, dumping ice chunks onto homes and causing over $5 million in property damage. The storm began at around 6:0 ended by mid-afternoon with local meteorologists blaming climate change for the extreme weather event.

The city was caught off guard when hailstones as large as softballs started falling from a seemingly clear sky, pummelling cars and buildings alike in an unexpected onslaught of ice that seemed to last longer than any Denver resident could remember. 

"I never thought I'd see the day where this city was under siege by hail," said Diana Ramirez, a local business owner whose storefront windows were shattered in the storm. "We need answers and action."

The massive iceballs damaged more than 20 homes, denting roofs like sandpaper on hardwood floors of suburban Denver neighborhoods as well as flipping cars over while residents slept soundly through this annual April shower turned deadlier night. The National Weather Service reported that the hail reached a peak size between two and four inches in diameter, causing significant damage to vehicles, homes' exteriors, and plants within seconds of touchdown.

Scientists have been increasingly attributing extreme weather events like this one to climate change since researchers noticed patterns emerging from years worth of data that show an uptick in the frequency and intensity of severe hailstorms globally over recent decades, which can be linked directly back to anthropogenic global warming.

"This event is consistent with what we expect as our planet gets warmer," explained Dr. Thomas Fletcher, a climatologist specializing in regional climate trends at the University of Colorado Boulder. "As temperatures rise and weather patterns shift due to increased greenhouse gases like CO2, it's not surprising that we would see events such as this."

Governor-elect Jim Siltz spoke during his campaign about implementing more aggressive climate policies in light of growing concerns over extreme weather. Following the hailstorm damage assessment report issued on Tuesday morning by state meteorologists and local governments, he announced a task force aimed at tackling mitigating strategies to deal with such natural disasters linked to global warming will be established immediately after his inauguration next month.

"As the Governor-elect of this great city I assure you that we take these threats seriously," Siltz told reporters on Tuesday afternoon, amidst growing calls for a response from various sectors across Colorado to combat climate change's escalating effects in an already warming world. "I promise action and progress will come swiftly."

CNNNEWS NETWORK: How is the city responding? 
DENVER CITY HALL REPRESENTATIVE PRIMO TALKS TO ALEXANDRA FERNANDEZ, NEIGHBOR AND INTERESTED VOLUNTEER. (CNN) The Denver City Hall representative has responded to the hailstorm and its aftermath in his community by working closely with local officials for swift repairs of damaged homes while simultaneously encouraging residents to join hands on a citywide cleanup drive set up next weekend, reported Alexandra Fernandez from CNNNEWS NETWORK. "