Topic: Science - Weather

A powerful winter storm swept through New York City on Thursday night, blanketing streets and sidewalks in up to two feet of snow by early Friday morning as officials warned residents about potential power outages and transportation disruplements across the metropolitan area. Officials from the National Weather Service (NWS) issued blizzard warnings for New York City earlier Thursday, with meteorologists predicting that accumulations could reach 20 inches in some parts of Queens by late evening on Friday before tapering off during Saturday and Sunday as a cold front moved through.

"The storm is expected to bring dangerous travel conditions," said Dr. Jane Thompson, senior meteorologist at the NWS Albany office. "We've issued warnings because we want residents to stay put or make sure they have access to transportation if absolutely necessary." 

By midnight on Thursday, NYC Department of Transportation (NYCDOT) reported over seven inches had already fallen in some areas and warned that the remaining snowfall could easily push totals into double digits. "Our crews will work through tonight to keep streets safe for motorists," said Commissioner Kathryn Hammershain-Miller, though she also acknowledged there is a limit as to what can be done before temperatures drop even further on Friday morning with rain and snow forecast into Saturday. "The key right now will have everyone's safety in mind."

Thousands of New York City commuters were stranded across the city by early Thursday afternoon, with MTA officials reporting delays as transit systems struggled to keep up amid heavy downpours and snowfall before sunrise on Friday. Subway service was suspended at 5 p.m. yesterday after nearly three feet of accumulating snow buried tracks in Queens neighborhoods north of the Grand Central Park, which also caused a section of I-278 between Van Wyck Expressway southbound to the Belt Parkway off ramps to shut down entirely around midnight local time due to ice build up.

"The city is bracing itself for what could be one of its worst snowstorms in decades," said Mayor Bill de Blasio as he announced that 20,000 pieces of equipment from the NYC Fire Department would help with plowing efforts throughout Thursday and Friday. "Please don't drive unless it is absolutely necessary."

A local grocery store owner told WPIX-TV (Channel 11) he had already sold out of generators, blankets, flashlights and batteries in his store by early afternoon as thousands sought to prepare for the blizzard conditions. "I've never seen a storm this bad before," said Robert Smith while packing supplies from shelves after midnight hours at Best Value Supermarket on Queens Boulevard near Jamaica Avenue, which he described had been selling out of essential items since 10am yesterday morning amid the city-wide panic. "There's a sense among customers that there will be power failures and things like canned food are in very short supply."

Forecaster Brian Zelinski with WPIX confirmed by early Friday afternoon that nearly three feet of snow could fall overnight before tapering off during the weekend as temperatures dropped into the 20s. The cold front is expected to bring rain and additional precipitation on Saturday, though forecast models are conflicting about whether it will be