Topic: World - Americas

"Diana Medina has dedicated her life to serving immigrant children in Chicago but now finds herself amidst an unprecedented crisis as Hurricane Ida threatens the South with devastating force."

Hurricane Ida, a category 4 storm poised at Category 5 on Saturday afternoon (August 29), was projected to hit Louisiana by nightfall. As of now, about 180,00th people have been evacuated from the Gulf Coast region in New Orleans and surrounding areas due to Ida's threat — a number that is expected to grow as conditions worsen with time.

Medina, who works for Catholic Charities, was one of those facing an uncertain future when she called her friend Julie Thompson last Thursday (August 27) from New Orleans at about 10 PM ET to discuss the hurricane situation: "I tried calling my family in Florida right after Hurricane Ida started forming. They told me that everyone was preparing and getting evacuated," Medina said as she looked out of her window towards Tropical Storm Harvey, which had been downgraded from a category 2 hurricane earlier this week but remained near Louisiana for days in what has become one of the costliest disasters on record.

"It's not just about my job," Medina continued after weaving her story into an emotional conversation with Thompson, who is also originally from Mexico City and now works as a nurse at St. Rita Medical Center near Chicago where she has lived for 14 years. "I have three brothers back home in Veracruz — I just want to be safe."

Medina told CNN that the Catholic Charities program, Project Welcome Home USA (PWH), which provides transitional housing and services like job training or English language classes to immigrants who arrived before President Donald Trump's zero-tolerance policy of separating children from their parents at the Southern border went into effect in 2018 has been offering emergency shelter for families on short notice since then, when another deadly Category 5 hurricane swept across Florida and South Carolina. However this time many PWH clients are not able to evacuate with Medina's help because of their precarious status in the country — a situation that has forced her program to rely on local churches for shelter as well: "We usually get about 50 families [at our usual shelters]," said Thompson, who added she is worried many may not be able leave without proper identification.

While Medina and others like her are scrambling amid the storm threat in New Orleans — where evacuation orders have been extended to Sunday night because of forecasts calling for up to 15 inches (38 cm) of rain — a group led by former President Barack Obama's top White House political advisor, David Ploumpas has joined with Catholic Charities USA and the United Way Worldwide in an effort raise money for Louisiana evacuees through its Hurricane Ida Relief Fund.

CNN reported last week on what it said was a disheartening reality that many immigrants fear to seek shelter or assistance before such hurricanes because of their status, which has only been compounded by President Joe Biden's tough line toward illegal entry into the country as well as increased funding for U.S. Customs and Border Protection in an effort he said