Topic: World - Americas

In a landmark decision that has sent ripples across North America and beyond, President Joe Biden announced Wednesday his intention to withdraw U.S. troops from Afghanistan by September 11 next year -- the same day marking nearly two decennial since NATO forces first stepped into the country in the wake of Sept. 11 attacks over a decade ago.

As per reports, Biden has been steadily reducing troop numbers for months and plans to bring home all U.S. soldiers by Aug. 30 next year as he seeks a timetable that ensures both security in Afghanistan while also enabling Americans returning from extended tours of duty since the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks two decades ago.

“We are finally ending America’s longest war and I think we can all agree to give this nation a chance to heal,” said President Biden during his announcement at The Pentagon in Arlington County outside Washington D.C., as reported by CNN which also quoted anonymous U.S. officials saying the Taliban made assurances of not attacking civilians and turning Afghanistan into an international terrorist safehouse, but many are skeptical about their commitment to a peace deal with Biden administration's terms in place at present.

Since 2001 when U.S forces launched Operation Enduring Freedom following the Sept. 11 attacks as NATO allied countries sent additional troops into Afghanistan, nearly two decades have passed but progress towards stability and peace continues to be elusive -- raising questions about what impacts ending the presence of American soldiers might have on regional security in Asia or beyond while also stirring concerns amongst U.S forces who fear their jobs would become redundant without these crucial protectors at hand, especially with Taliban threats escalating recently.

"We are ready for our next mission after leaving Afghanistan," said Gen Mark Millejohn, Commander of the 10th Mountain Division based in Fort Drum outside New York state which is scheduled to return home by early August under Biden’s plan -- but experts caution that America's exit may embolden extremist groups like ISIS or even regional adversaries such as Iran who might feel empowered if there are no U.S boots on the ground in Afghanistan anymore after two decades, according to a New York Times analysis of former American troops and diplomats interviewed for its special report last weekend entitled 'Bitter Peace'.

"The Taliban's promise cannot guarantee security without international pressure," warned Dr. Mohammad Amin Khan -- the head of political studies department at Kabul University in Afghanistan’s capital city, who added that “it is unlikely for a fragile government to keep afloat against growing threats from Pakistan-based militants." He insisted on continued NATO support beyond 2021 which would be impossible without U.S military presence because the Taliban still controls swathes of provinces and are not ready yet politically or militarily for such an international alliance as suggested by Dr., who stated that “Afghanistan must stand up on its own feet with internal reforms, instead of depending solely upon foreign assistance."

President Biden has made his intentions clear: American soldiers will return home but the president stressed during Wednesday's announcement at The Pentagon in Arlington County that he wants to leave behind a