Topic: Sports - Pro Football

In a stunning turn of events during Monday night's NFL playoff game at MetLife Stadium in New Jersey, quarterback Tom Brady led his team to an unexpected victory against the previously undefeated Los Angeles Rams on January 12th. The win snapped five consecutive losses for both teams and propelled them into Week 18 of the regular season with renewed vigor as they face off in a critical matchup this Saturday night at Gillette Stadium, where Boston'seligibility hangs by a thread.

"It feels like anything is possible," said Tom Brady after leading his team to victory against one of the most feared defenses in football history - the Los Angeles Rams. "We came out fighting and we never stopped until that championship belt was hanging around my neck." 

With two games left, both teams are still competing for a wild card berth and must defeat their next rival while losing or minimizing losses to other struggling contenders in the AFC East division. The New England Patriots will be playing on short rest after this victory but hope it's enough fuel to propel them toward success as they head homeward from MetLife Stadium for a Week 18 game against their divisional rivals, the Buffalo Bills at Gillette Stadium on January 20th.

The Patriots find themselves in an interesting position this season - with two victories and five losses already under their belt but still alive as one of only four teams to qualify for postseason playthroughs should they manage another win over the Buffalo Bills next weekend, followed by a matchup against division rivals Tennessee on January 26th at Gillette Stadium.

Bill Belichick's Patriots (who are coming off of their first loss in nearly two months), though having struggled to find an effective third-string quarterback since losing Danny Noonan last season, have been able to rely on a stellar defense and Tom Brady himself for the bulk of successes this year.

"Brady has always had great chemistry with our defensive backs," said head coach Belichick during Monday's victory celebration at MetLife Stadium as he looked ahead toward his team preparing to host New England against Buffalo Bills next week, "We are playing for a division title and that means every point matters."

The Patriots now return home following their 28-13 triumph over the Rams where Brady threw four touchdown passes while also picking up three interceptions - his worst outing since Week One of last season, when he finished with just eight completions across seven attempts against Miami Dolphins. But even through that defeatist start on October 27th at MetLife Stadium which resulted in the loss to New York Jets, Belichick and Co.'ve continued to fight back each week - ultimately leading them down this rocky road but also propelling towards their goal of reaching new heights as a team.

Bill Parcells, who spent over two decades with New England from 1974-2001 before retiring and taking his former quarterback Tom Brady under the wing for most of that time at various other NFL teams - including Tampa Bay Buccaneers (where he served as head coach), led many Patriots fans to wonder whether their current struggle could be attributed in part on mismanagement by Belichick after stepping down from playing last season.

But even with those concerns