Topic: Science - Space

Astronaut Thomas Pesquet reports experiencing mild sleep disruption aboard the International Space Station as he prepares for his mission's conclusion later this week. The French national was scheduled to return home on April 28, but due to a recent resupply shipment arrival with scientific equipment and essentials needed by visiting crew members has been delayed until May 3rd in order to accommodate Pesquet’s extended stay aboard the orbital outpost.

Pesquet was thrilled for this unexpected turn of events, as he expressed his excitement over receiving an extra weekend at ISS with fellow European Space Agency astronaut Luca Parmitano during a live Q&A last night: "To have another week in space and share my time on the International Space Station is something we never thought about but now it's here. It means being able to see more stars, enjoy Earth’s beauty for an extra day or two!"

Sleep issues are not uncommon among astronauts due to unique conditions such as microgravity that affect sleep patterns and physiology while in space - a phenomenon known scientifically as "space adaptation syndrome." Accordingly, NASA has conducted extensive studies on the subject with findings indicating potential impact of these disruptions including decreased cognitive performance which could have far-reaching consequences for mission success.

The extra time aboard ISS will provide Pesquet and his crew mates a chance to further observe how living in space influences their biology on both short term trips as well as long haul stays like this one with French astronaut Jean-Francois Cantin who had just returned home after staying for over 195 days since April of last year.

Cantin was forthright about the challenges they face, “It's definitely a different way to live,” he said during his press conference on Earth with family at NASA’s Johnson Space Center in Houston where Cantin will reunite after spending an entire month aboard ISS along side fellow French national Pesquet. He went onto add that living and working together for so long can be difficult as their personalities begin to clash, “It's not always easy but you learn to respect each other.”

Pesquet’s return flight is scheduled on the SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule along with three NASA astronauts. It will launch from Launchpad 39A of Kennedy Space Center located in Florida where it has been undergoing pre-launch processing for several weeks now before finally reaching orbit via a historic commercial spaceflight contracted by Nasa as part of their Commercial Crew Program which aim to reduce dependence on Russian Soyuz crafts used since 2001.

With the increased use and popularity in private flights, questions arise regarding safety regulations concerning this new era with an estimated increase from ten trips per year by SpaceX now at over sixty expected across next five years according to company CEO Elon Musk who recently tweeted his ambition for human colonies on Mars.

Astronaut Pesquet will join fellow NASA astronaut and ESA partner Luca Parmitano back aboard ISS as they continue with their research work during the Frenchman’s extended stay alongside them since arriving from Earth last October, “We are so pleased to welcome Thomas on board,” said Mission Specialist Dr. Mark T. Gorman who is leading Pesquet's team up there and described it a "