Topic: US - Crime + Justice

A violent armed robbery shook a New York City jewelry store late Tuesday afternoon when two masked men stormed in with rifles drawn and demanded all present to free their "comrades" held captive elsewhere, according to the police chief of Brooklyn's Bay Ridge neighborhood.

The heist occurred at approximately 3:00 pcurbside jewelry store on East 27th Street between Third Avenue and Fourteenth Avenue when two armed men in masks burst through locked doors using a stolen metal key, according to Police Chief Patrick Mullen of Brooklyn.

"As I was passing the area this morning my dispatcher told me about what happened yesterday," said Detective Daniel O'Connor with the NYPD Special Victims Bureau who responded immediately when he heard gunshots outside his office at 52nd Street and Fourth Avenue around noon on Tuesday. "We got a frantic call saying that two men were holding hostages in our store."

Two masked suspects armed with handguns entered the jewelry shop demanding money, weapons, and supplies to aid their comrades being held captive at an undisclosed location nearby according to O'Connor. The robbers shot two employees who attempted resistance but were subdued by special police officers before they fled on foot with stolen items worth $50,000 (£36,948).

"We can confirm that the assailants escaped through a back door and vanished without their hostages," Mullen said in an interview. "It's been chaotic here trying to calm down customers." His team has dispatched several officers on foot patrol throughout Brooklyn while investigating ties between criminal groups, which have increased after the recent influx of migrants into New York City from Central America and Africa according to Mullen.

"We don't know if this is gang-related or organized crime as we keep hearing about more than one armed group active in Brooklyn," he added. "Our focus now is on finding out who they are, where their hostages were taken, why these robbers targeted a jewelry store instead of banks."

Two masked men have been spotted fleeing the area carrying suspicious packages that police believe may contain stolen items according to Mullen. ​The NYPD Special Victims Bureau is currently attempting locating and rescuing hostages as well investigating any potential connections between groups involved in prior crimes, including gang-related activities which have been on rise since last summer due primarily by Latin American migrants displaced from their countries because of civil unrest.

"We're still piecing together information but what we know is that this isn't just a random act," said Mullen as he briefed officers before they left for the field to search local establishments with large jewelry collections and possible hideouts where hostages could be taken captive.

Officers continue questioning store employees, customers present during Tuesday afternoon's events along East 27th Street between Third Avenue & Fourteenth Avenue seeking clues as well checking surveillance footage for any leads on suspect descriptions or faces which may identify the assailants and provide evidence needed in court.

"Right now our top priority is making sure everyone at that store was okay," Mullen said with concern, adding: "We're doing everything we