Topic: Entertainment - Celebrity

In a heartwarming gesture of charitable giving and recognition for his extensive philanthropic work in Africa, Hollywood star Chadwick Boseman announced plans to donate $30 million to build a world-class medical center on the continent he spent years filming. The late actor will be remembered not only as an Oscar winner but also for changing countless lives with generosde care and attention since his first visit in 2015, when Boseman traveled there to shoot parts of "Marshall" - a role that would later lead him towards becoming the revered Black Panther.

Boseman's donation comes after years as an advocate for African health care causes and will help transform facilities in several underserved regions, with construction starting early next year on what is projected to be Africa’s first center of its kind dedicated exclusively to pediatric specialty surgeries.

“I always wanted this dream from my childhood growing up here,” Boseman said while visiting a local hospital in Nairobi last month with his wife, Yung-Zhao Yeh and their two children who were born on the continent shortly after he moved there full time for film work back in 2015. “And I finally have that dream now.”

The Bosemans are among many American celebrities to make recent generous contributions towards health care improvements across Africa, according to experts and locals alike who believe the celebrity-driven push is helping shine an international spotlight on often overlooked problems. “I’ve lived in Kenya for 14 years now,” said Dr. Njeri Kimani of a local maternal health clinic that also recently secured funding from American entrepreneur Yara Shahidi, daughter to celebrities Beyoncé and Solomon Sanders who has become increasingly active herself as part of the #BlackGirlMagic movement across Hollywood today while Boseman’s gesture stands out.

“The support we got came at a time when people didn't even realize how bad things were here,” Kimani told CNN on Tuesday after meeting with Yeh and Boseman recently before they departed back to the US last weekend, where she is currently stationed as one of two Kenyan surgeons helping oversee construction for medical center development that will include state-of-the-art facilities equipped not just with operating rooms but also intensive care units - a first in Africa’s hospitals.

While it was unclear from initial reports exactly which facility Boseman would help build, Kimani confirmed the donation had gone to one of two local projects she and fellow surgeon Dr. Sam Omondi have been working with since November 2019 - as both are part-funded through a US$3 million grant for medical infrastructure development from The Rockefeller Foundation in partnership with Kenya’s Ministry of Health, which has also begun building similar centers across the continent to address longstanding gaps and disparities.

“It was really Chad who helped us get that first seed money,” said Dr. Sam Omondi when asked by CNN if Boseman had played a role in garnering more resources for development, though he declined further comment at this time after meetings with the actor over the past couple months since his fundraising announcement made headlines across Africa and Hollywood back home last weekend where both star-powered supporters were seen visiting local hospitals themselves to