Topic: Sports - College Football

Former USC wide receiver La'Mical Perine has been charged with assaulting an on-field official at a college football game last weekend in Los Angeles County. The incident occurred during the first quarter of Saturday night’s homecoming matchup against UCLA when referee Brandon Thompson was allegedly struck by Perine, who had just returned to action after missing time due to injury concerns from previous matches this season.

Perine, 21-year-injury history at USC before being drafted into the NFL last year as a free agent, is currently on academic probation and has already been placed on two years’ suspension for his actions off the field. The university confirmed that they would be conducting an internal investigation to determine if additional disciplinary action will also occur against Perine due to this incident alone or in combination with other behaviors as per USC policies.

“As a school, we take incidents like these very seriously,” said DePaul Hastings Assistant Athletic Director of Student Affairs Jennifer Williams while speaking at an internal press conference earlier today on campus grounds surrounded by faculty members and athletics staff who were present to answer questions about the incident in question. “We expect all our student-athletes not just perform academically, but also act as role models off the field.”

The league’s officials are still assessing if this will affect Perine's playing time for USC against Stanford next Friday night when they host a conference opponent in their final regular season matchup. This game is crucial to both schools hoping to qualify into post-season play or face bowl games, respectively as the College Football Playoff rankings are released soon afterward and those teams would compete directly against each other during that process before regional semifinal matches on December 14th at neutral sites with tickets for select sections already being sold out.

A witness who was seated near where Perine allegedly made contact says he heard the collision as it happened, describing hearing loud thuds followed by Thompson barking instructions while trying to get back into action after that incident occurred. “I couldn’t believe what I saw! It looked like someone tried too hard,” said Sean Martin, who is a regular spectator of USC football games and has been following the team as it competes in its home confinement for years now since relocating to Los Angeles from Seattle after graduation. “La’Mical seems pretty young but he knew better than this... I hope whatever punishment comes down on him will be enough.”

Thompson, who has worked games across the country during his time with NFL teams before coming back home to serve as referee for USC and UCLA football games once again after completing courses in sports management last year at Arizona State University. The former LSU standout had only been assigned official duties earlier this season while waiting on clearance from medical staff who assessed a previous injury that may or may not still be affecting his ability to continue officiating full-time long term as he tries out for other positions with NFL clubs next month after graduation.

In the meants of making sure incidents like these do not reoccur, some are suggesting USC increase mandatory training on respect and sportsmanship while others believe there should be stricter consequences in general when it comes to actions taken by student-athletes off the field against anyone else at all during games or otherwise. “If we want our kids who represent collegiate football nationwide as some of