Topic: Politics - CNN Polls

```markdown

In a surprising turn of events at this year's presidential campaign trail, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton narrowed her lead in CNN poll numbers to within five points over her closest competitor, Senator Bernie Sanders, as the contest enters its final month. The latest NBC News/WSJ polls show a shift that could have significant implications for Tuesday'semajor debate schedule and campaign strategies nationwide.

Hillary Clinton held an early lead in national polls with about 48% of the vote share, according to FiveThirtyEight’s projection model; however, recent surveys suggest that this advantage may be eroding as more voters start making up their minds on Election Day. "I think we're seeing a reflection of Americans' increasingly dissatisfaction with both parties and desire for substantial change in government," commented Dr. Emily Chen, political science professor at the University of Maryland who studies election trends.

Sanders supporters have taken to social media this weekend expressing their renewed vigor as they see an opportunity amidst Clinton's fluctuating poll numbers; some even argue that these dynamics are setting up a more exciting, dynamic debate between the two candidates in November 2016.

"This unexpected lead has energized our base to really focus on bringing about progressive change," said Sanders campaign spokesperson Alex Smith during an early-morning press conference today at his headquarters just outside Philadelphia. "We understand this is a high stakes race and we're ready for it." Clinton supporters, however, remain confident in their candidate despite the tightening gap: "Hillary has proven time after again that she can win," said campaign organizer Lisa Thompson from New York City while discussing next steps at an evening rally.

The shift could result in a major debate being held closer to Election Day as both candidates strive for maximum exposure before voters head out onto the polls, with some experts predicting that this will not be the last time these final two hopefuls stand on national stage together ahead of Tuesday's election.

"This is an unprecedented situation we find ourselves in and it calls for extraordinary measures to make sure our message gets across," says Thompson, as thousands gathered outside New York City’s Madison Square Garden tonight cheering their candidate after hearing about the recent poll developments that have some questioning Clinton's chances.

```