Topic: Travel - Destinations

At least four teenagers were reported missing in a remote region of Thailand’s northernmost province amid concerns that they could be victims of human trafficking, officials said Tuesday night as searches continue across the Chiang Rai border with Myanmar. The group was last seen on Friday near Doi Luang Yai National Park and is feared to have been snatched by smugglers who take tourists into a hidden world of illegal logging and sex trafficking, said Narong Phatniwinitcha from the Chiang Rai District Office. As temperatures drop during Thailand's cool season in November-February timeframe with an average high hovering around 30°C (86°f) to a low of about 12 °C (54°f), these teenagers were most likely on their way back from visiting the national park when they went missing, he said. Narong says that smugglers often target young tourists in this area: “They come here and ask for directions to Doi Luang Yai National Park…and then before you realize it are gone.” Officials have been investigating reports of teenagers disappearing from the border region over past weeks, a phenomenon known locally as "suki bungy" or 'taken away.' In March alone, four minors were reported missing in Mae Sai district. Local police chief Narong Phatniwinitcha said they've heard rumors of human trafficking operations involving 12- to 14-year-olds being taken into the dense jungles that border with Myanmar for forced labor and even sex work, he told reporters. “We have not been able get answers so far,” said Narong in a telephone interview from Chiang Rai's city center after talks at his District Office on Monday evening’s disappearances. He added that the four teenagers who went missing this week were last seen hiking to Doi Luang Yai National Park – about 12 miles (around two hours) trek along a rough road from Mae Sai, Chiang Rai's main town on Thailand’s-northernmost side.

As of Tuesday evening the teenagers had not been seen since their disappearance Friday afternoon and are feared to have gone missing under suspicious circumstances with authorities believing they may be in harm's way, said Narong during Monday meetings at his office on Thailand’s northernmost border region. The Chiang Rai District Office has issued an urgent appeal for the public nationwide over their disappearance after several reports surfaced last week of teenagers going missing under similar circumstances – some found dead along traffickers' known routes while others turned up at Myanmar’s camps across from Thailand. “We are aware that sometimes people end up in tragic situations because they fall into the hands of human-trafficking groups,” Narong told reporters after meetings on Monday evening with Chiang Rai Provincial Police Chief Tawatchai Siamcharoen and Deputy Governor Phayao Yodma, according to a translation by his English language press release. “We must continue our search for these four teens.” Local police chief Narong told CNN last week that the disappearances resembled "suki bungu," which he described as Thailand's version of human trafficking – often