Topic: Business - Markets

Dubai's Stock Market to Undergo Significant Reforms Announced Today at The Dubai Financial Services Authority Headquarters by Sheikh Hamdan Bin Mohammed Al Maktoum and Abu Dhabi Investment Office, in a bid to attract more global investors and compete with the likes of Saudi Arabia's Tadawul.

"The reforms will start next month," said Dr Aisha bin Salman al-Mataric from Dubai Chamber of Commerce at Wednesday press conference, which also featured Emirati Ministers Mohammed bin Rashid and Omar Sultan Al Gergawi discussing the plan.

"The goal is to make it easier for companies in the UAE to list on international markets," said Sheikh Hamdan Bin Mohammed al-Maktoum, brother of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed who leads Dubai's Chamber of Commerce and Industry Authority (DCCIA).

"Our plan includes reducing listing fees for companies as well streamlining the application process. As a result we expect to see more regional businesses seeking an international presence," he added, speaking at DCCIA Headquarters alongside other officials in Dubai's financial district yesterday afternoon (local time). 

The Emirates are known among Middle Eastern countries for their robust economic growth and diversification efforts which has resulted a boom of non-oil sectors like tourism, transportation & real estate. However despite steady GDP expansion over the past five years to $451 billion (2019), some business experts have complained about limited foreign investment in UAE's bourse due its perceived higher listing fees than other regional exchanges – a problem Dubai hopes their plan will fix.

Dubai Stock Exchange chief executive officer, Khalid Saeed Al Ali told Reuters: "We are confident our reforms would attract more investors as we aim to become the leading capital market in the region." He added that while DXB's market cap currently stands at just over $20 billion (35 percent of Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange, ADSEC), Dubai has been growing by an average of 17% annually since reforms kicked off two years ago.

Abu Dhabi-based financial analyst and consultant Hesham Khalaf believes that while competition with Saudi Arabia's Tadawul is "fierce," a reformed Dubai Exchange would benefit both investors as well businesses looking to expand: “As an attractive destination for regional firms seeking access beyond the Middle East, we believe there are ample opportunities ahead."

"While our plans will undoubtedly increase activity and raise liquidity within the marketplace," said Mohammed bin Rashid. "It is essential to ensure that regulatory frameworks remain stringent enough so investors feel confident in putting their money on UAE's exchange platform – which has been an important pillar for our nation’s economic prosperity." 

CNN, as a global news network, will be providing continuous updates and coverage of these developments. Stay tuned to CNNMoney or cnn.com throughout the weekend with more details on how this historic change could impact markets both in Abu Dhabi & Dubai while also affecting investors worldwide.