Topic: Sports - Olympics

Two American gymnasts were sent home from Tuesday's Olympic team final in Tokyo following an altercation with a judge over perceived bias during their routines that day at the Ariake Gymnastics Centre, according to officials and witnesses who say tensions flared after years of complaints about Japan’s judging system.

Kayla Jones (19) was stripped from her final qualification out on floor exercise when she objected multiple times against referee Miho Kamada over the scorecards, reports The Washington Post citing gymnasts and teammates who say they saw it happen. A few minutes later, fellow junior Kayla Hamilton also had to remove herself after a heated exchange between her and Karoly Kovacs during handstands on bars earlier in the day continued into Tuesday’s final routine until another judge intervened by pulling Kamala off Harris as she struggled with balance.

"Kaylah was told time and again that [the situation] wasn't okay," senior gymnast Madison Kocian said, per USA Today. "She got really upset at the other referees because it seemed like they didn’t want her to do well." Jones declined comment on Tuesday about why she removed herself from competition earlier that day but told reporters afterward: “The only thing I'm saying is there has been a lack of transparency.”

After being pulled for removing grips, USA women’s artistic team captain McKayla Maroney had to leave her floor routine just before half-time. At the time she spoke with reporters on Monday about not wanting any distractions in front of cameras while training back home prior to arriving overseas for competitions: “Just a calm, cool demeanor.”

"I'm disappointed," U.S Olympic Committee chief Steve Penney said Tuesday when asked about the Jones and Hamilton incidents after they were sent packing from Tokyo with their unused medal spots intact as per Reuters citations on both gymnasts’ official social media pages where fans have expressed anger over lack of transparency. "I'm disappointed in our sport, it seems that the relationship between USA Gymnastics and Japan is less than ideal at times," Penney said referring to several allegations against former head coach Nation’s College basketball player Bela Futaki whose wife was a judge who scored many of U.S gymnasts across decades during Tokyo 2020 with penalties for late dismounts and lackluster handstand passes even though USA athletes are considered the best in the world, which is why they get more leniency as to mistakes because they have a much better chance at winning medals. "I hope we move forward together here," he added before getting on his flight back home for another two weeks of training with U.S teammates who've been working hard during competitions this week and will compete in the finals tonight when gymnasts across 12 countries enter Olympic rings to try their hand, footwork or floor artistry at winning a gold medal as they look for redemption after last summer’s Tokyo games ended without one on home turf.

The U.S Gymnastics Association has been under fire over the past year since former senior national team coach Bela Futaki was forced to resign following accusations of sexual misconduct against several members, per USA Today citing internal emails leaked