Topic: World - Australia

Australia is facing unprecedented wildfinflares as severe bushfires continue to ravage parts of New South Wales and Victoria states since Thursday night. The fires are reported by authorities at the time to be over ten million hectares in size, with more than a thousand individual blazes raging across both regions simultaneously during this month's peak fire season.

The devastating conflagrations have not only claimed dozens of lives but also displaced thousands from their homes and destroyed millions of acres of pristine wilderness that has come to symbolize the country’s unique natural heritage for centuries, CNN reported Thursday night after an emergency meeting with state leaders.

Emergency services minister Darren Webb announced plans this weekend aimed at mitigating fire hazards in critical areas such as Sydney's urban fringe and national parks surrounding the Snowy Mountains region near Canberra, where fires have been tearing through forests of eucalyptus trees that are well-known to contain highly flammable oils.

He revealed new initiatives including setting up controlled burns ahead of summer months when vegetation is dryer and more vulnerable but acknowledged they're fighting an uphill battle as record temperatures forecasted by the Bureau of Meteorology could see bushfire risks skyrocket further into autumn. 

Members of both state political parties have been vocal in their criticism that Australia has not taken sufficient action on climate change, with politicians acknowledging there's "no excuses" for failing to protect communities from such disasters while some citizens are increasingly calling out what they see as a lackluster federal government response.

Environment Minister Tanya Pliber suggested at Friday’s emergency session that Australia must address its carbon emissions and transition away from coal if it wants long-term solutions to recurrent bushfire seasons like these in which climate change plays an increasing role every year, The Daily Mail reported Thursday night. 

"I am here with a message for all Australians: It's time we acknowledge the reality of our changing environment and face upfront how it affects us," she said after meeting virtually alongside NSW Premier Gladys Berejikliam, Chief Scientist Dr Alan Finkelstein among others.

"Together with industry leaders - from business to energy producers –we need their commitment toward sustainable solutions while creating job opportunities in clean technology." 

However not all experts believe more can be done on reducing greenhouse gases, citing the impact of natural causes and regional climate patterns that are beyond human control. A senior meteorologist with Australia’s Bureau for Meteorology warned earlier this month it could take until next year to fully understand if high temperatures observed during 2019-early 2020 were linked directly or indirectly through global atmospheric systems, the outlet reported Friday night.

But many local firefighters say they are working around the clock with little rest in fighting massive infernos which seem more relentless every year due to drier forests and hotter summers attributed largely by scientists as consequences of climate change that will only worsen if action isn't taken soon.

"We have a responsibility not just to ourselves but also our children who deserve better futures with healthier environments," said one veteran NSW firefighter in Sydney during Friday night’s meeting, urging for