Topic: Sports - Olympics

During a break in play at Tokyo's Ariake Gymnastics Centre on Wednesday night, world-record holder Simone Biles decided to sit out of women' extramural artistic gymnastics qualifications citing an "edge" feeling as her reason. In the second meet day of these prestigious competitions held at Yoyogi National Stadium Park in Tokyo on August 3, Miss USA and World Champion Simone Biles withdrew from a women's individual all-around gymnastics competition after one session due to what she described as an "edge" feeling. As the U.S. team prepared for their eventual match against Romania later in the evening on August 3, they were without their star athlete at Biles who is seeking a fifth world title and hopes this Olympic cycle will be her last full one before taking some time off to focus solely on mental health with assistance from professionals.

Biles' announcement came as she was already feeling the pressure of competition in Tokyo, where U.S team members are struggling for their share of limited spots at home after months without competitions amid COVID-19 pandemic shutdowns and lockdowns back home last year. "I don’t want to risk my health," Biles told USA Today prior to her withdrawal decision on Tuesday, as the U.S. gymnastics team traveled for a three day meet which also includes Thursday afternoon's session at Tokyo's Ariake Gymnastics Centre against Ukraine in their qualifiers where all eight of them will compete together with one spot already secured by Biles before she decided to sit out, and her coach explained: "Everybody is very disappointed. But we understand." Coach Liang Nan said that while the team as a whole has been doing well so far this year after last season's cancellations amidst COVID-19 pandemic infections among U.S gymnastics members, Biles had been dealing with more pressure than her peers and was showing signs of anxiety about how she would perform during these Olympic qualifiers since the team final round at home took only one member into a tie for first place after all eight qualified to advance following their combined scores on Tuesday.

Biles, 24-years old now considered America’s greatest gymnast and among its most decorated female athletes with seven world championships along with five Olympic gold medals already under her belt by the time she decided against competing in Tokyo after an "edge" feeling became evident. Her coach also admitted that Biles was struggling to handle pressure, stating: "She's a workhorse as far as mental strength goes – and I know what it means for Simone when you step out of something like this." As her U.S teammates got ready on Tuesday morning at Ariake Gymnastics Centre prior going against Ukraine in their qualifiers, she said: "I just didn’t feel right to go into the event and compete knowing that I felt an edge," adding later about focusing solely on her mental health.

In a separate interview with reporters ahead of today's competition for U.S team members who are still competing, Biles explained she wanted "a little bit more time to focus exclusively and take care" before re-entering gymnastics after taking this break: "(Both coaches) understand the situation that I’m in right now." The decision