Topic: Science - Medicine

FDA Grants Full Approval for Pfizer COVID-19 Vaccine in US Youth Under Age Five  

August 30th – The Food and Dneral Administration (FDA) announced today that the Moderna vaccine is now fully approved by regulators, marking a milestone as it becomes available to everyone aged five years and older. This comes after Pfizer's approval for children below two has made waves throughout healthcare systems worldwide with 50% of U.S.-born young adults having received the vaccine in their second doses last week, according to CDC data released today by The New York Times.

"With this new full authorization from FDA for Pfizer's COVID-19 shot, we can now offer an even safer option and further protection against hospitalizations," said Dr. Anthony Fauci in a press conference held at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) today, just outside Washington D.C.

Although studies have shown mRNA vaccines to be safe for children under five, only 30% were eligible and had completed their second dose by August 15th when this approval was announced; however now that full FDA authorization has been granted these youngsters can receive the COVID-19 shot with increased confidence from parents who previously hesitated due to safety concerns. The Pfizer vaccine, manufactured in New London and distributed across all fifty states since December 2021 after receiving emergency use approval by regulators on January 3rd of that year; has been administered over two billion times thus far according to the FDA itself who issued a statement last night highlighting its benefits for youth.

"Getting vaccinated against COVID-19 is vital in protecting children from severe illness and hospitalization, especially as we continue seeing an uptick of pediatric cases nationwide," said Dr. Jerome Kim CEO at the International Society for Virology (ISV) while attending a conference on SARS CoV-2 research hosted by Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore today.

Today's full approval will be especially important as cases of pediatric COVID continue to rise; with over 5,000 hospitalizations among children aged zero through fourteen since December last year according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), an increase that coincides with waning vaccine protection.

Experts say this news will help parents feel more confident in their decision-making as they navigate these difficult times; offering a sense of relief while continuously seeking updated recommendations from healthcare providers, including pediatricians and infectious disease specialists to keep children safe during COVID's ongoing impact. 

Dr. Rochelle Walensky director at the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) stated today: "We know that parents want what is best for their kids, which includes access to accurate and timely information when it comes time to make healthcare decisions; especially as we continue monitoring emerging variants like Omicron."

The FDA's move will now enable pharmacies nationwide who wish to begin offering the vaccine with full authorization. Pharmacists across New York, California and Texas have already begun receiving doses for immediate distribution upon approval after Pfizer submits a required number of 240 million shots by October