Topic: Sports - Pro Football

Bengals' tight end finds comfort in local sports community following on-field incident – CNN

By: James Carter

July 25, 2023 - Cincinnati, Ohio (AP Photo)

In an unexpected turn of events during a heated NFL matchup last night at Paul Brown Stadium, the Bengals' star tight end suffered an injury when tackled by two players from opposing teams. The incident has brought to light some concerning attitudes towards concussions in professional football but also sparked conversation about supporting athletes through challenging times off the field as well.

The 28-year-decade veteran tight end, Darius Wilkes, was seen tipping his head back and struggling on contact with two opponents when he fell to the ground clutching his neck shortly after a play in the first half ended around halftime timeframe of Sunday night's game.

Wilkes was taken off the field but did not reveal what injuries were sustained during pre-game interviews, causing speculation about potential concussion concerns among medical experts and fans alike after multiple hits to his head throughout last season that also ended in a brief hospital stay for him afterwards. However, it remains unclear if this is directly related as no official reports of injuries have been disclosed by either team or the NFL at press conferences yet today.

"I just felt something snap," said Wilkes after he was helped up on the sidelines where his family and friends gathered around him trying to keep their player's spirits high during what they hope is a short recovery period that will see some time off from playing in Sunday night games before next season begins. "It wasn't painful immediately, but I knew something felt wrong."

The Bengals had already faced criticism this week after one of the two defensive players involved was seen with an injury himself while returning to his hometown yesterday for a reunion game that turned out not being what he expected as fans began booing and throwing water bottles onto the field. His teammate then appeared on national media last night where he explained how important it is we all support our fellow athletes no matter who they are playing against or if there's any animosity between teams before getting back to work afterwards with his regular routine of hitting weights as part of rehab for previous injuries that have made him stronger and less susceptible this year.

"I understand how painful it must be for Wilkes," said Johnathan Harris, a Bengals fan who has been rooting hard on the team during their time together in Ohio. "He's worked so hard to get back into shape after last season’s injuries but he deserves our support no matter what happens."

Wilkes was able to stay positive while being questioned about his condition and future with a concussion specialist by the NFL Players Association who reassured him that all necessary precautions will be taken in regards to recovery. The Bengals' head coach, Frank Reich, has been visibly shaken up himself when discussing this injury for multiple reporters since speaking about Wilkes firstly on video last night where he commented: "It was a tough hit and we need our players at their best every game."

Aside from medical attention given to the tight end by trainers during games, it appears that both teams will be reviewing safety measures with respect to head injuries going forward according to reports released earlier today. NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell commented