Topic: Science - Space

An international team of astronomers has made a groundbreinally observed asteroid pass by Earth in record time on Friday evening local time. The space rock – known as Asteroid ID#20317 – became the fastest-spotted celestial object ever recorded, hurtling past our planet at an unprecedented speed of 75 kilometers per second (about 46 miles per hour).

"The asteroid was a real sprintster to us in space," said Dr. Maria Zhang from the European Southern Observatory's Asteroid Survey Center, located in La Serena, Chile. "It caught our attention with its unusually swift trajectory." 

Astroid ID#20317 is a newly discovered member of an already known asteroid family – those that are believed to share similar origins and compositions as they orbit the sun together due to past collisions between these space rocks. Researchers had been keeping tabs on this group, but nothing in recent years has come close to matching Friday's flyby speed record for a natural object passing our planetary neighborhood – Earth is currently orbited by 129 recognized moons and countless man-made satellites that zip around the globe at much lower velocities.

"This asteroid caught us off guard," said Dr. Juan Perez, an expert in Near-Earth Objects (NEO) from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory based out of Pasadena, California. "It appears to be a high velocity visitor and we don’t want it coming back."

According to the International Astronomical Union records dating back decades – asteroids are often discovered by telescopes in space or on Earth's surface scouring our skies for these objects, some of which could potentially pose risks to life here.  The fast-moving visitor passed within a mere six lunar distances from the planet; about three times as far away as it takes light to travel around Earth once – in under two minutes at its peak speed nearer pass by just past midnight local time Friday night, making for an extraordinary celestial event.

"The object was bright enough that even with a basic telescope here on the ground we were able to detect and track it," said Dr. Carlos Rodriguez from Argentina's Universidad Nacional de La Plata Observatory team who contributed their expertise in observing this flyby while staying alert during nighttime skywatches around Friday evening, adding that despite its speed being unusually quick for an asteroid to approach Earth at such a short distance – the passing space rock didn’t come close enough to pose any immediate danger.

Officials from NASA and Spacewatch - part of The University of Arizona's Steward Observatory located in Kitt Peak near Tucson, have been monitoring Asteroid ID#20317 since its discovery earlier this year after it was spotted by an amateur astronomer using a telescope during daytime skywatching. 

“It’s always exciting when we find something new – and if that object ends up being of scientific interest, even better," said Dr. Patricia Thompson from NASA's NEO Program Management Office in Washington D.C., which is involved closely monitoring potentially hazardous asteroids while working with other international partners globally on a continuous basis. "With this fast-moving visitor coming our way tonight though, all we wanted to do was record its impressive speed