Topic: Science - Weather

A powerful Nor'easter system is expected to bring heavy snowfall and strong winds along much of the East Coast next week, with potential for blizzard conditions in parts of New York City on Wednesday night into Thursday morning. Meteorologists at The Weather Channel warn that this weather event could disrupt transportation and lead to power outages as early Sunday evening through Monday morning.

The National Hurricane Center has issued a Blizzard Warning for the following counties in New York State: Westchester, Nassau, Suffolk, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Dutchess, Ulster, Greene, Albany, Columbia, Rensselaer, Saratoga, Montgomery, Allegheny and Monroe.

"This is a significant weather event that could impact several major cities across the region," said Chief Meteorologist of The Weather Channel Tim Sampson during his Tuesday morning report at 7am ET on CNN'in New York City studio (123 Broadway, Manhattan). "Our team will continue to closely monitor this system as it develops over the next few days."

With an accumulation of up to two feet expected in some areas and gusty wind speeds exceeding 50mph, officials have urged residents living near coastal regions or close proximity to highways where snow removal efforts will likely be challenged. New York Mayor Bill de Blasio expressed concern about potential impact on public transportation systems during an emergency press conference yesterday at City Hall (1 Park Row, Manhattan).

"The safety of our citizens is paramount," the mayor said as he addressed reporters via video call from his office downtown. "We are in regular communication with New York's Department for Transportation and Metropolitan Transit Authority to ensure all necessary precautions will be taken."

Experts at Rutgers University predict temperatures during the storm could drop as low as 15 degrees below freezing, adding an extra layer of difficulty when it comes time for snow removal efforts in some New York City boroughs. Associate Professor Jane Rodriguez shared insights with reporters yesterday regarding possible consequences such inclement weather might have on city infrastructure and operations: "The extreme cold combined with heavy accumulations increases the risk not only to public health but also puts significant strain on our plowing crews."

Emergency management officials in New York City are working diligsently around-the-clock preparations. They plan to deploy as many snowplows and personnel at possible beforehand, which they hope will keep city streets clear of drifts during the storm's peak on Wednesday night into Thursday morning when most residents stay indoors or sleep through it anyway if not affected by power outages (a likely possibility according to The Weather Channel meteorologists).

While officials focus their efforts in New York City, they are urging other East Coast states including Washington D.C., Maryland and Virginia also brace themselves for what the National Hurricane Center predicts will be a major snow event impacting millions of people across several million square miles stretching from Canada down to Georgia along I-95 corridor starting Wednesday evening, with up to three feet expected in some areas as far south as Atlanta by early Thursday morning.

Residents have been advised not only on how best prepare their homes for the storm but also what steps they should take if faced with power out