Topic: Sports - Hockey

Winnipeg Jets' young goalie makes history as he becomes first player born on ice rink in Winnipeg since '87 Stanley Cup championship team era
By The Associated Press and CNN Staff - Published June 10, 2023 at 1:30 AM EDT

WINNIPEG — Alex Turner has just set a record that'nerves the heart of sports historians. Born on Wednesday during an NHL practice session inside Winnipeg Arena – home to the Jets and Canadiens – he’s poised to become hockey's first player born in its ice rink since 1987, when Wayne Gretzky scored his fourth hat trick of the season.

Turner is a mere five feet tall but has already begun drawing attention from scouts with powerful shot that many believe would see him play at major league level one day — which could have been more likely had he not spent most of those first 18 years in foster care before being adopted by the Winnipeg hockey family.

"The odds were against me but I wanted to be a part of this amazing sport," said Turner during an interview after yesterday's game where his incredible shot helped secure a win for his new team, The Jets."This is my dream come true! Being born on the ice rink and becoming one day has been quite surreal.”

Turner’s birth occurred at 2:15 p.m., just minutes after practice had started but before players began warming up to take part in yesterday's home game against Calgary Flames which turned out to be an exciting draw for nearly two hours of heart-stopping action between the pipes as both sides fought hard and hung on until every last puck was skated into empty nets at 3:40 a.m..

Turner, wearing No.15 jersey this afternoon while playing goalie alongside his twin brother John (No.26) who is currently serving an NHL suspension for fighting in Edmonton last weekend's game against the San Jose Sharks - came out of nowhere when he scored three goals and added one assist during yesterday’s exhibition match, setting records on both counts as youngest player ever to do so while playing goalie (Turner was also just 16 years old).

"He had an incredible performance today," said Jets coach Alain Vigneault who spoke after the game at a press conference here in Winnipeg. "His skill level is undoubtedly beyond his age, which shows what great things are possible if we give these kids all of our support."

Turner will continue playing alongside older teammates during training camp before being given the chance to join regular season action as soon as November 7th against Montreal Canadiens in an away game at Bell Centre Arena. With just under three months remaining until start day for this year’s NHL-lockout shortened schedule on December 26th, Turner and his new family of hockey mates are counting down the days now with anticipation written all over their faces as they continue to learn about one another during training camp which began earlier today in Winnipeg.

"This is just an amazing experience for me," said Jets defenseman Jordan Eberle, who was born at St. Boniface General Hospital on September 28th last year and grew up dreaming of playing N