Topic: US - Crime + Justice

In a stunning turn of events in Detroit on Tuesday evening, two teenagers were arrested following an elaborate burglary at one of Michigan's most historic homes built in the early 1900s by industrialist Henry Ford himself; no suspect has been released. As news broke out yesterday afternoon (March 25), local authorities said that multiple surveillance cameras captured teenagers, Jacob Miller and Ethan Johnson, entering through an unsecured back door of the mansion at 104 Oakwood Drive around 7:30 PM on Saturday. The trio had targeted a wealthy collector's art collection rumored to be worth millions over several days before their arrest last night during a stakeout operation conducted by federal agents in partnership with Detroit police force and the FBI.

"This was not just an ordinary burglary, we are dealing with organized crime here," said Chief Detective Lisa Harper of the local precinct who led investigators into this sophisticated heist ring that has been terrorizing affluent communities in Southeastern Michigan for over two years. "We've arrested these boys because they played a crucial role as mules delivering stolen valuables, and we hope their cooperation will help us bust the entire operation."

Jacob Miller confessed during interrogation that he had been approached by an older individual who introduced himself only as 'Rat.' The 16-year-old claimed to be offered a job delivering packages in exchange for cash but little did Jacob know, those were precious artworks and antique jewelry. "I'm sorry my folks will never forgive me," Miller said through tears after being arrested at Detroit Metropolitan Airport on Sunday upon returning from dropping off the stolen goods to their original drop point in Atlanta following a failed attempt by Rat during which several police cars were set ablaze leading investigators back into deeper waters. "I was just desperate, I had no other options."

Ethan Johnson, 17-years old and also from Detroit, admitted his involvement but said he never saw the end result of their crime spree - a collection that included original Monet paintings, rare Rolex watches, diamond necklaces, along with gold coins believed to be worth over $30 million altogether. "I thought we were just delivering some packages and cash; I had no idea what was inside until they asked for my help in cleaning up after the mess Rat made," said Johnson who pleaded guilty during a press conference held by Mayor John Benson this afternoon (March 25).

With these teenagers' confessions, federal agents now have enough evidence to put an end to Detroit organized crime ring that has terrorized local businesses and residents alike for years. Federal prosecutor Karla Simmons stated confidently today at a press conference held alongside Mayor Benson that "we will not rest until every member of this group is behind bars." The suspects are expected to face charges relating to theft, possession of stolen property with intent to defraud others, conspiracy and drug trafficking. Both Miller and Johnson could also potentially be charged for violating federal laws involving minors transported across state lines unlawfully as part of their criminal activities since they were not legally allowed to travel without parental permission between Michigan and other states.

Residents in Detroit have expressed shock, anger, fear at the bra