Topic: Travel - Destinations

A recent surge in tourism to Greenland's remote fjords has led officials and environmentalists alike to call for sustainable travel options that respect both the breathtaking landscapes and local communities. The appeal follows a record-breaking year last month when thousands of adventurous vacationers descended upon the stark beauty along with an unprecedented impact on infrastructure and ecology, according to official tourism reports for January 2023 from Nuuk City Administration in Greenland's capital.

"We must balance our desire to experience these wonders first-hand while protecting them," said Environment Minister Mette Lykke as she addressed the media last Friday during her weekly cabinet meeting with fellow ministers and stakeholders, urging for more eco-friendly tourism practices. "Infrastructure must be improved not only to accommodate our visitors but also safeguard this pristine environment."

Economic benefits aside — as Greenland's GDP reported an increase of 5% directly attributable to travel incomes last year, per the Danish Statistics Institute— many agree that measures must be taken. With over one thousand tourists arriving each day between January and March alone this season compared to just under a thousand during corresponding months five years ago, pressure on local resources has never been greater, according to Nuuk City Councilor Aleqa Jacobsen's statements last Wednesday at the annual Greenland Tourism Conference in Qaanaaq.

The surge prompted authorities here and abroad alike — including officials from Arctic nations Norway and Iceland as well local NGO The Inuit Circumpolar Council — to call for urgent dialogue on travel planning, resource allocation, community involvement, environmental impact mitigation, etc., which is currently being facilitated by the Greenland Government in partnership with various stakeholders. "Our first priority should be supporting our communities while preserving their way of life and environment," said Councilor Jacobsen at her opening statement on Monday morning during an official press conference held under a tent, sheltering 20 local officials from government departments as well as representatives for Arctic nations Norway and Iceland.

Some advocacy groups such as The Inuit Circumpolar Council are also pushing to raise awareness about sustainable travel options by providing educational materials on the impacts of mass tourism, which they hope will encourage responsible visitation behaviors — according to CEO Peter Nielsen's email sent yesterday after a meeting with local officials. "We urge all travellers and businesses operating here in Greenland to adopt sustainable practices," he wrote.

Efforts are being made by the tourism industry itself as well, such as initiatives like responsible travel programs offered at certain hotels near popular attractions; though many question if these measures go far enough considering what has transpired over recent months, according to hotel manager Lars Knudsen's feedback last Friday during an interview with repor016.

"It feels good to see industry taking some responsibility," he said while gesturing towards a noticeable increase in visitors since the start of January at his establishment near Disko Island and Kangerlussuaq, which has been promoting responsible travel options for quite some time now — but also admitted that much more can be done. "The influx is overwhelming; we're stretched to capacity as it is," he said with a s