Topic: Sports - Baseball

Atlanta Braves' star shortstop opened his own record-breaking fundraising event for disaster relief in hurricane-battered Puerto Rico on Saturday night at Truist Park. Arian misael pineda, who is originally from the island and currently plays for Atlanta with a contract through 2024, launched an intimate baseball game where ticket holders had access to seating within close proximity of home plate during his appearance against Miami in early August.

Arian Pineda's fundraising pitch brought together friends and fans from across the country at Truist Park last Saturday night as part of ongoing relief efforts for Hurricane Maria victims back home, reports CNN Latino/o. The Atlanta Braves star was joined by former teammate Yadier Molina to play a special exhibition game in front of more than 200 supporters from Miami and Puerto Rico who had all purchased tickets with the proceeds going directly towards relief efforts for victims, reports MLB Daily.

Pineda is originally from Caguas before moving to Florida at age eight where he began his baseball career in Southwest High School's competitive program until graduation two years later after earning All-District honors both seasons and being named team captain for 2013 as the Teen Athlete of The Year. His journey then took him on a path with several MLB affiliates before signing his first major league contract in July, reports WFLA.

After joining Atlanta Braves last December he quickly established himself at third base where fans have dubbed "Braves Magic Arian" by the media and baseball writers alike due to an ability make plays that would seem nearly impossible for anyone else on the diamond as described by former Teen Athlete of The Year in Southwest High School, Jake Kowalski.

Knowing personally how devastating Hurricane Maria's impact was when he first arrived back home following a 2018 summer camp with Atlanta Braves and the team taking time out to watch images from relatives who had been affected by powerful category-four storm, Pineda decided early on in his professional baseball career that it wasn’t enough for him just be one of many people helping.

"I'm not here because I love playing ball or wanting attention," says the 23-year old centerfielder and son to a Braves scout, "and there are so much more ways we can all make an impact on these families." His mother Maru is still recovering from serious back injuries she sustained during cleanup efforts that left her bedridden for several weeks.

The father of two himself has made it his mission to do whatever he could with the little help at hand including organizing a fundraising event, collecting food and clothing donations along with partnered nonprofits across South Florida like Feeding America's Food Recovery Network that distributes recovered perishable goods for free from supermarkets.

"I knew Arian wanted to do something he could take back home (Pineda is originally Caguas native). So I suggested a baseball game because it touches hearts and souls in an immediate way," says Atlanta Braves senior Vice President of Baseball Operations John Cooney who has personally reached out the team's roster on his own family as well with Pineda having two brothers back home.

CNN Latino/o spoke to three former high school coaches and Arian