Topic: World - Africa

In a striking discovery on January 20th in Kenya's Kilifi County, archeologists unearthing remnants of an ancient civilization have found artifacts that could redefine understanding of pre-colonial African societies. Excavations led by Dr. Amina Okoye at the coastal site believed to be around 800 years old revealed a wealthy settlement, complete with ornate pottery and jewelry typically associated with other ancient cultures thousands of miles away in Asia Minor (present-day Turkey).

The findings suggest there was an extensive network between sub-Saharan Africa and the Old World that extends back much further than previously thought. Dr. Okoye says, "Our discoveries indicate a civilization here far more sophisticated and interconnected with distant cultures of Asia Minor." The items found include ceramics stylistically similar to those unearthed in Byzantium as well as beads that are consistent with materials used by the Persian Empire.

Dr. Okoye's team believes these artifacts point towards a trade network, possibly one facilitated through Indian Ocean maritime routes connecting Kilifi County directly to Asia Minor and beyond at this early stage of global history. Historians suggest that while there has been documented contact between Africa and the outside world during Arab conquests in East Africa around 630 A.D., intercontinental trade networks might have emerged considerably earlier than commonly thought, predating even European explorations by centuries.

"It's as though we can feel ourselves touching history with these objects," says one of the archeologists who helped unearth them in Kilifi County this month—a sentiment echoed amongst experts worldwide eager to reconsider historical timelines and connections between continents due to this groundbreaking discovery.

The international community has hailed Dr. Amina Okoye's team for their findings, which may have wide-reaching implications on our understanding of ancient history. UNESCO is preparing an emergency session with historians and archeologists across the globe to discuss what this discovery could mean academically—and how it might affect global cultural heritage conservation efforts going forward.