Topic: Travel - News

A massive forest fire in California has forced thousands to evacuate their homes as smoke blankets nearby towns and cities since early Wednesday morning when it first started near Yosemite National Park's Wawona entrance, the largest of its kind for this time of year. The blaze quickly spread due to a combination of dry conditions brought on by an extended drought affecting much of Western North America, fierce wind gusts that exceeded 70 miles per hour at times last night according to local reports from Monterey County Sheriff's Office and the National Weather Service. As of today (Wednesday), it has engulfed more than 15 square miles but is still not fully contained, although firefigcurers have successfully protected numerous homes in some areas by building containment lines around them.

The California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CalFire) said there were approximately 20 structures threatened at its peak last night with the evacuation order expanding overnight from residents living immediately adjacent to Wawona, through outlying communities such as Grant Grove Village in Crane Meadow Parkway. Sheriff John King declared a state of emergency for Monterey County late Tuesday evening while air force firefighting resources were dispatched across the region to assist local agencies battling this fierce inferno, which has consumed nearly 15 square miles as it burns through dry brush and lush green forest.

"I just don't understand how we let things get so bad," said longtime park visitor Laura Johnson from Atlanta who arrived at Wawona with her family on Wednesday morning after spending time last weekend hiking trails throughout Yosemite National Park before the evacuation notice was issued. "The smoke is unbearable and I heard my grandchildren cry because their stuff got soaked in water from leaks as we're rushing out of here."

CalFire officials urged residents to remain calm amidst mounting anxieties due largely stemming not only on Wednesday’s fire growth rate but also the possibility that strong wind gusts could further exacerbate it throughout tonight. "While we have some containment around homes and other structures, Mother Nature continues her rampage as dry fuels are highly susceptible to ignition," said Chief of Fire Operations Capt. Robert Martinez during an afternoon press conference at Monterey County Fairgrounds where displaced residents gathered for food, water, blankets, baby necessities and psychological support by various non-profit organizations operating onsite today (Thursday).

"We are doing everything humanly possible to ensure the safety of those in harm's way. But this is a tough situation with unpredictable conditions ahead," Martinez added as he stood next to an army truck transporting personnel and equipment necessary for firefighting efforts at nightfall near Wawona, where flames continued to threaten hundreds more structures after evacuating over 10,000 residents last night. A total of four fires have now simultaneously raged across the region since late Tuesday evening when officials first reported an undetermined cause in a remote location within Yosemite National Park near Wawona: El Dorado Fire Complex which engulfed more than 14 square miles, Pine Gulch Fire affecting roughly eight sq.mi., Canyon Creek fire impacting six-plus squared