Topic: Science - Weather

Floodwaters subside in New Orleans as emergency officials assessed widespinfrastructure damage on Saturday morning following a historic deluge triggered by Hurricane Ida's landfall last night near the city and into today, according to CNN meteorologists. As residents surveyed their homes for the first time since then-Mayor LaToya Cantrell declared an emergency overnight Wednesday evening due to severe weather warnings from NOAA forecasters monitoring a powerful storm churning in the Atlantic Ocean towards New Orleans and other parts of Louisiana, devastating flooding hit areas that usually have no standing water. The hurricane made landfall around 10:45 p.m., local time (8:45pm ET), bringing winds gusting up to seventy-five miles per hour before rapidly weakening as it churned its way inland towards the northern parts of Louisiana and Mississippi, said CNN meteorologist Brandon Miller citing information from NWS Storm Prediction Center. "The waters are receding quite quickly across much of New Orleans this morning," Mayor Cantrell reported to reporters with a heavy rain shower blanketing her office shortly before 9:00am (6:00am ET). She said, as in the last two weeks when tropical storms Fred and Grace delivered flooding rains into downtown New Orleans from nearby Lake Pontchartrain on Saturday afternoon to early evening hours -- but nothing close or life-threatening so far. The mayor's office is also monitoring a slow moving thunderst01r cloud forming about ten miles northwest of the city, and could be more dangerous with heavy rainfall possible by late tomorrow night into Sunday (7pm ET to 3am). NOAA reported that water levels in Lake Pontchartrain were rising as high tide coincided this morning near New Orleans. "It looks like a lot less flooding than what we saw last week when I was here, which is good news," said Dr. David Zubasher of UL at Monroeville Marine Hospital told reporters outside his office just after 9:00am (6:00am ET). "These are the rains that normally don't make it inland -- here, where we have all this flat land. The water was overwatershed capacity and backed up through many of our drainage canals." Zubasher is monitoring patients who had storm-related injuries with wounds infected from standing water exposure for the past week due to Hurricane Laura's catastrophic impact on western Louisiana late last month. "There are still areas where people need help, especially in our elderly facilities and nursing homes," said Zubasher who is part of a team working with UL Medical Center officials evaluating the city's infrastructure damage since Hurricane Ida struck New Orleans earlier this week (with impacts across southeastern Louisiana). "These were not designed for storm surges and even now we are finding things that can be repaired. But there is much work ahead of us before life goes back to normal here." At least two deaths have been reported statewide from the historic flooding, including one victim found in a car at an overpass near Baton Rouge last Friday evening (Friday night into Saturday morning). A second body was recovered by authorities early this week. The mother of that person passed away alone and with no immediate family or help available