Topic: Sports - Baseball

Drew Brees was just a spectator for most of this season when he joined fellow Saints quarterback Derek Carr in San Diego to play baseball with fans at Petco Park on Tuesday night (April 10). He threw out the first pitch and fielded right-hand high singles from Tony Bosch, Josh Bell and Brandon Belt.

Drew Brees is a rare NFL quarterback who plays amateur sports in his spare time - throwing touchdown passes for New Orleans Saints fans at Petco Park on Tuesday night (April 10). The star of the NFC South was introduced by Mayor Todd Pritchard as he met up with former teammates Derek Carr, Blake Bortles and Colin Kaepernick.

"It's a great feeling to see all these kids play in front of their heroes," Brees said after the game between his New Orleans Saints and San Diego Padres (April 10). "I had no idea we were going until I got on the field." He was among several other big names from football, basketball, hockey or soccer who joined fans in a charity softball league organized by The Players Coalition.

The coalition is comprised of current and former players advocating for social justice reforms through grassroots efforts within professional sports leagues around the world to address economic disparities that exist on campuses, at home as well as in society globally - with baseball serving as a conduit towards greater community integration.

The evening began when Brees arrived from his Saints game against the San Francisco 49ers (April 10). After joining former teammates and other athletes on stage to raise awareness about The Players Coalition, Mayor Pritchard invited them down at City Hall for a meet-and-greet. "It's an honor," Brees said as he shook hands with fans outside the council chambers before being whisked away by two autograph seekers.

"I am just playing ball here - no pressure, nothing like that happens often in my world." The 15-year Saints veteran threw his first pitch and played right field as Padres manager Bud Black (right) attempted to get the crowd pumped up for a game against St. Louis at Coors Field on Saturday evening (April 9). He met with former teammates after practice, including Carr of the Raiders who is also playing this year in Oakland but was unable to make it due time restrictions that forced him home early Tuesday night - still just six games into his season.

The Padres are coming off their first 10-game winning streak since April (April) while New Orleans has lost its last four contests with a combined total of five touchdowns over those starts in the NFC South division race, including Brees' Monday night performance against Kansas City where he threw for one TD and led his team on two drives into scoring territory.

The coalition held their first game at Petco Park (April 10) with a capacity crowd of more than 23,500 people as organizers wanted to celebrate Brees' return after playing softball in the CFL for most of his career - including stints during Super Bowl LII season and offseason while back home at Saints training camp.

Derek Carr was joined on Tuesday night by two-