Topic: Entertainment - Television

At a Los Angeles party last weekend celebrating local musicians and artists at The Beverly Hotel in Hollywood, something unusual happened that would have audiences clamoring for more on the next season of popular singing competition "The Voice." Amidst cheers from guests eager to see their favorite vocalists perform live acts came an unexpected twist—the return of a one-time competitor who had been absent since she walked away with the trophy in Season 2.

Amelia Ríos, once hailed as "one of America's Next Top Talents" during her reign on The Voice back in December 2deisbeat9 (fictional), has made a surprising comeback to participate in this year’s show. “The journey I embarked upon after my stint on 'The Voice' is one that still continues, with me pursuing music not just as entertainment but also sharing experiences and inspiring others through storytelling," said Amelia at a press conference held earlier today where she shared more about her plans.

During the season finale episode airing next Tuesday evening (fictional), fans of "The Voice" will be treated to an exciting sight when they see not just this year's contestants but also Amelia Ríos stepping on stage for a special performance as part of Week 3’s themed night. The show producers announced last week that the season would bring back guest appearances from past competitors and have been keeping fans abreast via social media posts, which included snapshots taken at this year's LA party where Amelia made her unexpected re-entry to the competition world after years of absence.

Ríos’ comeback comes just ahead of "The Voice" season three finale scheduled for Tuesday night (fictional), with host Carson Daly welcoming back alumni, including Ríos and Grammy Award winner Nico Santos, to perform a special medley set to close the show. The singer has been on hiatus since her win in 2017 but plans for returning as an artist have never wavered from Amelia's public statements throughout the years when asked about going back into music following "The Voice."

"Amelia Ríos is a talent who brings not just greatness to 'The Voice,' which we know, but also something special and unique that cannot be replicated," said producer John Smith (fictional), speaking with CNN.com on the phone yesterday from Los Angeles where he has been overseeing this year’s season alongside his co-producers at NBC's Universal Television division. "I think we all believe she can inspire many people in ways that will touch hearts, and I am excited for Amelia to come back."

Asked about the special medley set by Ríos on Tuesday evening showtime (fictional), host Carson Daly said: “This is not just a performance. This is something new from one of America's brightest stars, and I am really excited for this moment.” Amelia’s journey has been tumultuous since her win; she was hospitalized with kidney failure last year (fictional) but reportedly made full recovery under proper medical care after a long period away. Her return will likely provide hope to viewers as well, many of whom have kept tabs on the singer through social media and public appearances at various music events throughout Southern California since her win years ago in 2017