Topic: World - Asia

A small plane crash in Nepal on Saturday evening has claimed at least two lives and left four others critically injured as pilots struggled to navigate treacherous weather conditions near Everest Base Camp (EBC), officials said Thursday, Oct. 21, after rescuers managed to recover the black box of their Cessna Skyhawk aircraft. The plane carrying six mountaineering experts from Australia and New Zealand was trying to reach EBC on October's final trek when it crashed into a steep cliff face about five miles (8 kilometers) east of Everest Base Camp, said Arjun Thapa, Nepal’selocal police chief for Khumbu Pasang Lhamu Rural Municipality.

The National Search and Rescue Operation Team had 24 rescuers at the site when they discovered three bodies inside what was left of a damaged cabin after several days of search efforts without any sign of survivors amid raging weather conditions, Thapa told reporters in Lukla, just southwest from EBC. The team found four people near another wrecked aircraft that had crash-landed atop the cliff about 10 miles (16 kilometers) away after a flightless time of several hours as rescuers struggled against raging storms and high winds to bring survivors down from Everest Base Camp.

"The search operation was difficult because we had heavy snowfall at night," said Sunil Dahal, an official with the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), who arrived after locals spotted something about 10 miles away and reported it to authorities near Lukla on Oct. 24 in Nepal's western Himalayan region where weather conditions are frequently harsh but Everest remains a key destination for mountaineers worldwide, known as the top "eight peaks" of Mount Everest by outdoor enthusiasts and adventurists who dream to climb it.

The survivors were found on Oct. 24 after rescuers descended into perilous areas with limited visibility near EBC where conditions are notoriously tough for mountaineers but remain some of the world's highest trekking trails, said Narayan Prasad Subedi, director general at Nepal Civil Aviation Authority. The pilots who flew from Kathmandu on Oct. 18 and attempted to reach EBC before a heavy downpour expected that night had taken all permits needed for flying above the mountains as well as training necessary because they were not local, he told reporters in Nepal's capital city of Kathmandu about six hours drive north from Lukla.

"It was an experienced pilot with a New Zealander who took out his license and certification to fly this aircraft," Subedi said without elaborating further on details regarding the plane or its pilots that were not publicly available at press time, referring them simply as "the two people." Rescuers descended into perilous areas around EBC where conditions are known for being some of the world's highest trekking trails.

"We have experienced many such accidents in this region and always recovered survivors," Subedi said, adding that rescuers would continue searching a wider area including at height between 14-25,000 feet (about eight to twelve kilometers) for additional bodies or potential signs of life. Rescue