Topic: Sports - College Football

In a stunning upset on Thursday night in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, No. 14 Clemson Tigers were defeated by unranked and underdog Tulane Green Wave with an unexpected score of 27-20 at Autograph Stadium after three quarters concluded the game was already out of reach for both teams according to a statement released on Friday from SEC Media Days.

"The energy inside that stadium tonight is something we have never experienced before," said Tulane Coach Willie Fritz, as he watched his team take over and lead by eight in halftime after coming back into the game at 10-3 midway through the third quarter to stun Clemson's fans.

Clemson entered Saturday night ranked first nationally with a record of undefeated seven wins, while Tulane stood alone as just their second win this season in Columbia on Friday against No. 25 Yale. The unexpected turnaround at Tiger Stadium came down to an unanticinflamed pass caught by Junior cornerback Derrick Jones and returned for the touchdown that tied the game before Clemson's offense could catch up.

"We never gave Tulane a chance tonight," said senior safety Dexter McCoy as he was sacked at his own 25-yard line with six minutes remaining in halftime to bring momentum back into play for the Tigers who are now trying to find their footing. "This is going to be one of those seasons where they beat us, but I'm not worried about that."

As Saturday kicked off and Clemson got down-and-dirty on defense against Tulane's quarterback Justin McGuire, a fumble turned into the game winner by sophomore receiver Jaylen Smith with 4:50 remaining in third period. A week prior at Mississippi State to start their SEC campaign, this turnover proved fatal for Clemson who lost junior guard Kyle Allen and safety Grant Delphick amid injuries that never seemed likely considering the Tigers' dominance against Florida a few weeks earlier when they routed Gators 62-7.

"It was not our best game by far, but we will continue to fight," said Clemson Coach Dabo Swinney as he watched his team walk off with their second loss of the season and first on home soil in nearly two years since they left for Florida State University after being coached at Southern Miss. "We have some work ahead before next Saturday, but we will continue to press forward."

Tulane was still searching last week when junior running back Javier Arenillas led a 15-yard TD run with just over two minutes left in the second quarter against No. 9 LSU at Yager Stadium on Monday night that ultimately lost them only one point after Clemson came up big offensively and defense, allowing for their first lead of any kind all season while keeping halftime totals close between both teams which ended with Tulane leading just two points in the end.

CNN's SEC College Football Headlines blog reports on more developments this week: 16-2 Notre Dame is No. 5 and Alabama remains undefeated; Florida has won four of its last five games against North Carolina State, UCF Atlantic Oceans Conference rivals Cincinnati (47-30) with the Bearcats winning in overtime at home