Topic: Sports - Basketball

Washington Nationals' Star Player Hospitalized After Injury During Game Night in D.C. on Friday Evening  
By James Carter - Sports Editor@The Washington Post Published at: 15:30 EDT, Fri February 24, 2024 (Update 16:47) Last updated at: Monday March 26th 2decmnf89.jpg  
(CNN/Jim Carter via Reuters; Getty Images)) In a surprising turn of events during tonight's NBA playoff game between the Washington Nationals and visiting team, one of our star players for the Washnigton Capitals was taken off the court due to an injury.  
The 6-foot-8 point guard made his move towards the basket from beyond midcourt but landed awkwardly on a loose backboard screw which he reported as being stuck in the floorboards during last night's game at Capital One Arena, home of Washington Nationals basketball team that was playing its first playoff game under new head coach Mark Thompson.  
During halftime commentary from ESPN broadcaster Joe Morgan on Friday evening after watching live coverage with his family back in Georgia where they had come for the weekend: "We could all sense how much he meant to this team and fans alike — it's always a tough moment when injuries occur during crucial games."   
District Attorney Elizabeth Rodriguez confirmed that her office has opened an investigation into what caused National Guard soldier Alex Johnson (34) serious sprained right knee, but did not immediately say if criminal charges will be filed. She said the incident was accidental and occurred when player's foot caught on something in his way as he went up for a shot near basket during game 76th second of third quarter against Philadelphia Eagles last night at Capital One Arena inside Chinatown which saw Nationals defeat them by one point with four minutes remaining.  
According to Washington Post reporter Michael Harris: "Players often try daring moves when in a playoff atmosphere where every basket counts for the outcome of your entire season — it's just part and parcel that comes with this pressure-packed environment." He continued further stating, “What happened tonight is unfortunate as we all knew Johnson could have done something differently. But hey – these kinds of mishaps do happen sometimes.”   
The injured player was promptly taken to MedStar Washington Hospital Center by National Guard Medical Corps where Chief Orthopedic Surgeon Dr Emily Parker informed family members that his injury is considered a non-career threatening sprain, but will likely keep him out for at least one full game and upwards of three weeks. This could impact the Capitals' playoff hopes as they face off against top contender Miami Heat on Sunday Night Game 1 during Finals in D.C., which currently looks like a toss-up between teams according to latest poll by ESPN Insider’s Dave Fleming who stated, “There isn't an easy answer here since both sides have had their tough moments — I just can't see Washington getting over this hump.”  
Washington fans were understandably concerned about the situation as they gathered outside the arena in silence following a live broadcast of the game on CNN. They expressed sympathy for Alex Johnson and hoped he could return to play his next home match, scheduled against top rival Boston Celtics at UMBC Arena inside Baltimore-