Topic: Business - Media

A prominent media mogul has agreed to pay $50 million in penalties and settle investigations related to alleged unfair practices that led numerous smaller outlets into financial turmoin over the past decade, according to documents released Tuesday by a federal grand jury. In an unprecedented move, Robert Stone Capital Group's founder and former CEO Richard Greene has confessed guilt before agreeing to this multi-million dollar settlement as part of his plea deal in the antitrust case against him that was filed earlier by the U.S Department of Justice on Thursday afternoon, reports The Guardian.

In a statement made today at 1 PM Eastern Time from Washington D.C., Greene said he's committed to making amends for his actions and is ready to make financial restitution as stipulated in the plea deal that could result in further criminal charges should greed override common sense, reports CNN Business Insider.

"This settlement will close a dark chapter of my life," Greene confessed while standing at lengthy press conference today with Attorney General Merrick Garland and Deputy U.S. District Court Judge Ann Digby Patterson overseeing the agreement. "I apologize to everyone affected by our practices."

The settlement comes after a series of class action lawsuits brought forth against Greene's capital group in states across America, including California, New York and Texas for allegedly taking advantage of small media outlets looking to expand through content purchases or acquisitions. The plaintiffs claimed that the terms were unfairly weighted towards Richard Greene Capital Group’s benefit while simultaneously pressuring their operations financially as they sought resources to compete in an increasingly hostile digital landscape, according to reports from CBS News and NBC News this past weekend.

The deal itself calls for $45 million directly going toward financial relief programs for the affected outlets over a three-year period while leaving room for up to $10 million reserved by federal prosecutors as back taxes should Greene's business activities widen in scope, per CNN Business Insider.

A spokesperson representing Richard Greene Capital Group was contacted today and is expected to release a statement regarding the agreement soon but has not done so yet at press time. As for what lies ahead beyond this settlement deal with authorities investigating further action against him personally along these lines, it's unclear how things will develop going forward or if there are additional penalties on tap in upcoming hearings. 

"This is a great relief to the thousands of smaller media outlets who have suffered financially because they sought assistance from Richard Greene Capital Group," Attorney General Merrick Garland said after today's announcement, according to The Guardian. "But it does not exonerate Mr. Greene or his business activities."

A representative for the smaller media outlets in question commented on behalf of their collective organization about relief and hope: 
"This is a huge moment as we begin rebuilding after years of financial struggle, but still there are more battles ahead," said Jessica Simmons, an executive board member with Media Small Business Alliance. "We're ready to fight for fairness in the industry once again."