Topic: Health - Sleep

In a groundbrethin study released yesterday by sleep experts at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore, it was reported that adult Americans are getting an average of just five hours of shuteye per night—well short of the recommended seven to nine hours for most people. Published last week as part of a larger 20-year investigation into sleep habits and their impact on health across all ages, researchers say chronic lack of rest is leading millions to suffer from serious physical conditions like heart disease and depression while also affecting brain function over the long term.

"Sleep deprivation poses a major public health crisis," says Dr. Michael Grandner, lead author on the study published in SLEEP journal last weekend and associate professor of psychiatry at Hopkins University School of Medicine where he directs their Behavioral Sleep Laboratory for Adult Health Research. "Our findings show that not getting enough sleep is associated with poorer physical health, including higher risks for heart disease, diabetes and obesity."

Grandner says more research needs to be done but he's already seen a direct link between lack of shuteye and impa0025minated brain function. "The evidence shows us that we can see significant cognitive decline in as little as two weeks among adults who are chronically sleep-deprived," says Grandner, adding more work must be done to understand why so many Americans regularly get less than six hours of shuteye per night and how they might begin getting back on track.

According to the survey's results, nearly 40% of American adults report sleeping fewer than seven hours a night—the magic number often cited as necessary by experts for good health along with maintaining proper weight, mood, brain function and productivity levels throughout waking life. Grandner says about half the nation's workforce regularly gets less time in bed between six p.m. to 6:59 a.m., but even among those who identify themselves as "good sleepers," two out of every three get only five hours or so on most nights while getting back at it after they finish working and head home from their place of employment—a trend Grandner says he's noticed increasingly over the last 15 years.

"People are always talking about, 'Oh my God I had a hard day,' but what is really driving this increase in sleep problems? It doesn't appear to be stress at all," notes Dr. Shelby Harris, director of Sleep Medicine at Sleep Number Bed Company with offices across the United States and internationally—including one on University Drive here in Baltimore City where she treats patients dealing with obstructive sleep apnea or other chronic disorders affecting their ability to get a good night's rest. "In fact, some of my patients tell me they feel better when work is more demanding because it helps them focus and keep moving forward."

Harris points out that the way many people are using technology in bed—including smartphones or tablets which may interfere with their ability to get quality shuteye. She says some patients even use devices while sleepwalking, a phenomenon increasingly seen at her facility among those suffering from other untreated health conditions such as anxiety and PTSD that can impact the onset of nighttime restlessness or insomnia for these individuals along with their ability to stay awake during the