Topic: Sports - Baseball

In a surprising turn of events last night at Yankee Stadium in New York City on Tuesday, rookie pitcher Alex Rodriguez was involved in an altercation that led to his being ejected from the game between the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox. The incident occurred after the third inning when a disagreement escalated between A-Rod and runner-up Daniel Nava of Boston, drawing attention not only for its rarity but also because it came during MLB's ongoing efforts to cleanse team rosters from performance-enhancing drug use.

"This is unacceptable," Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said in a statement after the game was suspended due to A-Rod being ejected with 17 innings remaining, per sources familiar with MLB's decision process. "I cannot allow something like this to happen on my watch."

A source close to Rodriguez tells CNN that he and Nava had a verbal disagreement over which team player should bat next in the order of runners-on base (ROB) situation - an exchange witnessed by several players, umpires, trainers, and staff on both sides.

"I'm not proud to say that I yelled at Daniel because he was talking back," Rodriguez said about his outburst during the argument in progress when MLB officials arrived from their bullpen nearby as per reports by multiple sports media sources citing league insiders familiar with internal decision-making.

Rodriguez's emotional rant allegedly included statements like, "I can take care of myself," and claims that he felt unfairly treated in the ROB situation which is decided before each game starts as per MLB rules stating: 'Upon being thrown out with runners on base at any time during an interleague or National League-American League (NL–AL) All Star Game, one member of a team shall be disqualified for that inning.' 

The incident has stirred up mixed reactions among fans and commentators alike. Some argue A-Rod should have been removed immediately from the game due to his actions; others see this as an unfortunate lapse by Rodriguez, noting he had a stellar career prior but was struggling at that moment on account of injury concerns voiced earlier in season discussions with trainers and staff.

"I understand Alex's frustrations about being thrown out," said former teammate Mariano Rivera when asked to comment during an interview broadcast live by ESPN yesterday evening, adding "but there are ways better than yelling." 

Yankees GM Brian Cashman told reporters that they will continue discussions with Rodriguez's agent Sally Jesse about his future in the Yankees organization. MLB commissioner Rob Manfred made no immediate comments after news broke but is expected to weigh-in at a later press conference today or tomorrow morning, sources added yesterday evening before information went public during lunchtime on Wall Street trading floors where rumors circulated nonstop about Rodriguez's fate and potential return date in the near future. 

Experts have pointed out that this incident should serve as a reminder to both players and fans alike of sportsms etiquette, adding "it isn't worth getting thrown out over," said sports psychologist Dr Susan Banks who has worked with professional athletes on maintain