Topic: Sports - Pro Football

In a dramatic turn of events at Monday night's game between the New York Jets and the Buffalo Bills in Week 14 on Sunday Night Football, star quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick suffered a severe leg injury during what began as an impressive display of arm strength. Witnesses first caught sight of Fitzmagic’s agility after his outstanding completion rate against New England last season led to the Jets hiring him from Tennessee just six months prior.

The 29-year-enzymatic force took command on opening night, leading a series with back-to-back touchdown passes—one of which was caught by newest acquisition Darius Johnson. Amid his stellar performance Fitzmagic completed seven out of ten pass attempts for over two hundred yards and three TDs as the Jets opened up to 6–3 overall while Buffalo fell behind after their All-Pro quarterback, Tyrod Taylor was injured in a similar fashion early on last week.

"I saw Ryan's legs gave way during his sack by Josh Allen," said defensive tackle for the Bills who caught sight of Fitzmagic being toppled over and unable to move as he crumpled, blood trickling down from an apparent deep laceration on his right calf.

Fitzpatrick was immediately rushed off-field while several medical professionals converged near midfield for a first aid check before the ambulance arrived within minutes of him going down with teammates and staff gathering around in disbelief as they watched their MVP make wayward history through painful misfortune.

"I just felt something give under my feet after Allen tackled me hard, I don't know how else to describe it," Fitzmagic explained while cradling his injured leg at the sidelines medical tent awaiting a doctor’s evaluation before being transported off-field for treatment. "It caught everyone by surprise and certainly took away what could have been another record season in terms of passing yards."

Experts believe that Fitzmagic might miss several weeks or more on the injury, but insisted there is hope he can return to full health if rehab stays ahead as his teammates rally around their fallen comrade. “It's never good news when a player goes down this way,” acknowledged head coach Adam Gase during Monday night’s press conference at MetLife Stadium following the loss of 27-16, "but our players have always been through tough times together in ways I could not imagine before.”

Jets linebacker Brandon Coplan was among those who reassured Fitzmagic that his former teammates and Jets staff would stand by him every step of the way. “He’s one helluva player,” Coplan said after helping to save a fumble for an eventual touchdown with 10 minutes left in regulation, "And as New Yorkers we always stick together through thick and thin."

Ryan Fitzmagic's unprecedented set of achievements will go down in franchise history; but now his most daunting challenge may be to return from a career-threatening injury that could shake the Jets’ championship aspirations. With playoff hopes dwindling following Sunday night losses, Fitzmagic's absence has been felt keenly as quarterback Sam Darnold and backup Colt McSweeney battle for control at center field during New York games this season