Topic: World - Australia

Australia's Pacific neighbors express concern over recent military exerCTe in Papua New Guinea as regional tensions rise amidst global strategic shifts: Expert Analysis and Local Voices Speak Out - January 10, 2024 (CNN)

Pacific island nation of Palau has raised its voice among neighbors worried about Australia's increasing military presence in Papua New Guinea. As the United States eyes growing strategic footholds across Southeast Asia and Oceania to balance against rising powers like China, analysts expect Australian Defence spending will likely continue along this upward trajectory as regional nations brace for potential fallout.

In a rare move that caught Australia's attention over the weekend (January 5), US special forces conducted joint exerCises with Papua New Guinea troops in remote coastal areas near Port Moresby, capital of PNG and home to more than eight million people across roughly seven-eighths of its territory. This marks an increase from their prior annual engagements focused mainly on maritime security concerns along the country's extensive shoreline with a history fraught by external influence over its natural resources in mining, agriculture sectors (CNN)

The Pentagon did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Australia has long maintained strong ties within ANZUS alliance and regularly collaborates on military endeavors across the Pacific Rim – a fact that was noted by Australian Defence Minister Richard Marles at last weekend's security summit in Fiji (February 2, CNN)

"Australia stands united with our partners to enhance regional stability," he said then. "The increased presence of US forces across the Pacific Rim is a positive development and should not be seen as an attempt by any nation to encroach upon sovereignty." Marles went on, stressing Australia's commitment for peaceful resolution (February 3)

However, regional observers have taken note of such developments with heightened interest. A representative from the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat warned last month that growing militarization in Papua New Guinea could set off an arms race across Southeast Asia and Oceania as nations attempt to maintain equilibrium amid global strategic power shifts (February 27, CNN)

"As one of Australia's closest neighbors, we understand the necessity for Pacific island countries like ours to safeguard sovereignty against foreign interests," said Secretary-General Patricia Gyuya during a conference call with reporters in Honiara. "But there must be open dialogue and trust between nations if it is not counterproductive."

A local observer shared similar sentiment, telling the Daily Mail he fears Australia's military exercises could spark confrontations among Pacific island communities that share close cultural connections across borders (January 6). "We worry about any unintended consequences of these large-scale deployments in our small home," said a teacher and resident from Samoa, who wished to remain anonymous due to fears over reprisal for speaking out.

"The history between Australia and Papua New Guinea has been long complicated by past colonial exploitation but today we must focus on how the current actions of powerful nations impact our own futures," he added (January 7). "I'm hopeful that my neighbors are doing their best to engage in open conversation with one another as well